The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) on Thursday amended the 18-count charge against former Governor of Gombe state, Senator Danjuma Goje and three others, by adding three fresh counts. The EFCC’s prosecuting counsel; Wahab Shittu said that the amendment became imperative due to new evidence uncovered during investigations and to make their case to go with the current situation regarding the proceedings. Both the accused persons understood the charges against them and pleaded not guilty. It recalled that in 2011, Sen. Goje, former Executive Chairman, Gombe state, State Universal Basic Education Board (SUBEB), Alhaji Aliyu Ubandone El-Nafaty, Food Supplier to Gombe state Government, Sabo Tumu and an Auctioneer, S.M Dokoro have been facing an 18-count charge at the Federal High Court in Gombe before the case was transferred to Jos Federal High Court due to security threats. Goje and three others were arraigned by EFCC for alleged money laundering and conspiracy amounting to N6 billion when he was the governor of the state between 2003 and 2011. After reading the charges against the accused at the court, their counsel, Chris Uche urged the court to grant them four weeks to enable them respond to the fresh charges. After listening to their request, the EFCC’s counsel, Wahab Shittu also urged the court to grant him four weeks to respond to the defendants’ response. The Presiding judge, Babatunde Quadri after granting both parties their requests he then adjourned the case to 3rd October, 2018 for continue hearing of the case. Also during yesterday’s sitting before amendment of the charges, a witness - Chief Detective of Economic and Financial Crime Commission, (EFCC), Mr Owobu Chris told the court how he conducted investigations on the issue of “forged resolution letter” of the then House of Assembly that approved the then Gombe State Government permission to obtain a N5 billion loan from Access Bank in 2006. The witness stated that in the course of his investigation he found out that there was no such resolution. But during the cross examination, the Defendant’s Counsel, Mr. Paul Erokoro has shown the witness documents tagged as exhibit NNN and B1-B7 indicating that due process was followed before the loan was granted from Access Bank.