The Emir of Kano, Malam Muhammad Sanusi ll has called on northern governors to map out modalities that will end the menace of drug abuse among youths and women in the region.

In his Sallah Sermon, emir Sanusi lamented that the rate of drug abuse among youths and women in the region was alarming and that the problem needs a holistic approach to tackle it.

He said, “It has been noticed that the children of those that are bringing drugs into the region are not into drugs. Rather they are being sponsored abroad for studies with the profits their parents made
from drugs business.

“I am calling on government at all levels to put head together with wealthy individuals in the fight against drug abuse. The menace needs a holistic approach to address it. The future of the region lies on the upcoming generation and unless we save the situation, the future of northern Nigeria will be at stake.

Sanusi, who thanked the federal government for banning importation and sale of codeine cough syrup and Kano state government for establishing a committee for fight against the sale of the banned syrup in the state, said governments had done their own part and the society should
also contribute its quota.

The emir also urged the governors and wealthy individuals in the region to sit up in the area of education, saying the region had a long way to go to bridge the educational gap between north and south.

He said, “Governors and wealthy individuals should intervene through establishing more schools in the region so that to improve the level of education of our people.”

Sanusi tasked northern leaders to pay attention to the problem of malnutrition among children in the region, saying until and unless something is done in that respect.

In his Sallah message, Kano State Governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has urged Muslims to continue to cherish the teachings of the blessed month of Ramadan and exhibit its lessons of self-discipline, piety, love, unity, peace and support for the weak and less privileged.

Ganduje in a press statement signed by the state Commissioner of Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, called on Nigerians irrespective of religion, ethnicity or political inclination to always live peacefully and selflessly contribute to the development of Nigeria.

"As we approach the 2019 General Elections, politicians must learn to be tolerant, accommodating, decent in their utterances and avoid hate speeches so as to sustain the established peaceful atmosphere in the state", he said.

On his part, the Chief Imam of Al-Furqan mosque, Dr Bashir Aliyu Umar, enjoined Muslims to sustain the good virtues learnt in Ramadan, the greatest of which, he said, was the fear of Allah.

The Imam then reminded people about the critical economic situation in the country and called on them to sustain the kindness they had been doing to the poor during the month of Ramadan. "People are in dire need of food, we should endeavor to continue to give out to the needy as we have been doing in Ramadan," he said.

Dr Umar then called on Muslims faithful to pray fervently against the incessant killings taking place in some parts of this country and other places around the world. And also called on them to pray for a
peaceful conduct of 2019 general election and ask for Allah's choice of good leaders.