Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto state has said that leaders at all levels must accept their responsibility because they cannot continue to pretend that all is well with the nation. "Everything is wrong with our nation and we must as a matter of urgency rise to the challenges," he stated. Speaking on the incessant killings in the country, the Governor said it has justified their calls for state police and state Governors to have some measures of control of security personnel in their respective states. He described it as unacceptable that a Governor would call the Commissioner of police over an important security issue but his call would be ignored. "Whether we like it or not there is seeming justification for state police and there is seeming justification for state governments to have some measures of control over security personnel. You call police Commissioner and that call is ignored is unfortunate and unacceptable," he said Tambuwal who was declaring the National Executive Council meeting of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) open in Sokoto on Saturday, called on President Muhammadu Buhari to do something about the serving chiefs and their mode of operations. "Providing security rely squarely on government, particularly, federal government. We must call a spade by its name. The President has to do the needful. We have qualified people who can bring fresh ideas," he said. The Governor however, cautioned journalists against writing things that would further worsen the current security situation in the country. "The situation in the country calls for caution." In his remarks, the national President of NUJ, Abdulwaheed Odusile said traditional and past leaders should desist from fanning the embers of hatred in the country. "They should mind what they say and media should also be mindful of what they write," he cautioned. He urged Nigerians to learn to live in peace with one another and not to resort to violence in settling their differences. Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko who was represented at the event by Isa Galadanchi admonished media practitioners to see their profession as a sacred duty between them and God, hence they should shun bias and unprofessional conduct capable of causing disunity in the nation.