The ECOWAS Commission has organized a workshop for journalists drawn from the 15-member bloc to enhance the visibility of its peace and security interventions in the sub-region. The programme, themed “role of the media in promoting peace and security in the ECOWAS region”, was to help disseminate information about ECOWAS peace and security mandate, as well as actions and programmes in Member States through national, public and private media. The project was supported by the European Union (EU). Speaking during the opening of the 3-day workshop in Abuja on Monday, ECOWAS commissioner for Political Affairs, Peace and Security, Gen. Francis Behanzin, stressed the role of the media in promoting peace and security agenda of the commission. Behanzin, who was represented by Director of Political Affairs, Dr Aderemi Ajibewa, said little is being known about the commission’s efforts in addressing the security challenges facing the sub-region. The workshop provides West African journalists appropriate information on peace and security efforts of the ECOWAS Commission to enable them better informed and engaged with ECOWAS citizens and thereby effectively promote and security in the region, he said. The head of regional cooperation, EU Delegation to Nigeria and ECOWAS, Stefania Marrone, said the menace of terrorism in some part of West Africa and the Sahel has continued to threaten peace and security despite the satisfactory progress in democracy. “Climate change and its resultant effects has further heightened farmer-herder conflicts. Insecurity in the maritime sector engendering piracy in the gulf of Guinea, trafficking and migration are also on the front-burner,” she said. Marrone however underscored the importance of solidarity among international partners in addressing the root causes of threats to peace in the region. She said the EU’s 27 million euros Peace, Security and Stability project aims to support ECOWAS by enabling it to execute its conflict prevention and resolution mandate in a sustainable and proactive way. The workshop featured presentations on media in peace and security; understanding of ECOWARN and how it works; Understanding ECOWAS work in mediating conflicts; best practices for solution-oriented reporting of conflicts, among others. 