The verbal altercations between the Niger State Governor Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello and his predecessor, Dr Muazu Babaginda Aliyu are far from over with the former accusing the later of under hand dealings and sharp practices during his tenure in office. In a statement signed by Mr Jide Orintunsin, Media and Publicity Coordinator Monday, Gov Bello accused his predecessor of embarking on white elephants projects which cost are most often inflated even as there are misplaced.  “As a matter of fact,  Governor Sani Bello never accused his predecessor of not investing but that majority of the projects are not only over inflated, some were misplaced without direct impact on the immediate communities while some were outright white elephant projects.  “Today, most of the so called investments the past administration prides itself of suffered on arrival. . It is on record that some of these projects never took off before Dr. Babangida left office on the 28th May, 2015,” Gov Bello alleged.  He said it is “uncharitable and uncivilized” for Aliyu to have brazenly threw caution to the winds by “arrogantly” accusing him of feeding the people of the state with outright lies and cheap sentiments, when in the true sense, these are the tools deployed in governing the state during Aliyu’s eight years of administration  “One recalled with regrets the fun fare and the huge budget expended on climbing of Zuma Rock under the disguise of flagging off a tourism project. The failed cable car project linking the rock to the popular Gurara Waterfalls; the half a billion naira burnt on the drawing and feasibility study of the moribund 5-Star Hotel in Minna; the massive Minna City Center project; the conversion of IBB Specialised Hospital to a world class facility and the over inflated New Minna Township Stadium in Maikunkule to mention but a few. One then wonders what proof Dr. Babangida requires.  “One is hasten to ask, what is in an investment that has failed to yield dividend years after? How many of such investment took off before the expiration of his term? The irony of it is that the huge expenditure on all these non-yielding projects would have been used to fund infrastructure when the value of naira was appreciably high,” he said.  He said despite several promises made by Aliyu’s administration to defray all the bonds secured, it is on record that he (Bello) has to reschedule repayment till 2021, adding that he expected Aliyu to be the one to keep mute rather than challenging his successor.  He pointed out that of Aliyu to effect the completion of many people oriented projects of his predecessor, Engr. A. A Kure, majority of which were 70 per cent completed were abandoned until this administration took them up.