The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate, in Ekiti State, Dr. Kayode Fayemi yesterday assured the people of the state that his administration would transform their lives and end poverty.

Fayemi had resigned as a minister on in the President Muhammadu Buhari government on Wednesday to enable him time to prosecute his campaign for the July 14 election. 

Fayemi who stated this while addressing journalists at the Akure Airport on Friday, was welcomed by party leaders from Ondo and Ekiti state together with large number of his supporters.

Predicting victory for his party, he alleged that the current government in the state has brought untoward hardship on the people.

His words, "I want to commend our people for their passion for excellence and determination to remove those who have brought our state to a state of comatose and i have no doubt in my mind,victory shall be ours. The time has come to remove poverty brought by the corrupt people in government today in Ekiti from the lives of our people and I pray God will perfect it for us.
"The journey we are into now,there is no how we will not succeed looking at the way people have trooped out to welcome us."

The Ondo State governor, Oluwarotimi Akeredolu, who led other members of the state executive council to receive Fayemi noted that the party was determined to take over Ekiti from the "misrule of the PDP".

Akeredolu said: " It means a lot to us,a lot to the party and the people of Ondo State.We are always craved to have brotherly neighbour and it is the essence of it in the party. The whole of APC,every arm of APC in the state is committed to this Ekiti project and it is a task that must be done because we are determined to make sure we reclaim Ekiti and restore what has been lost.
"Fayemi is not new in government. He has done it before and he is only coming to restore what he had been doing. A lot of things need to be done aright and I believe Ekiti State people will support him."

Fayemi, who arrived the airport in aircraft with number N570JF touched down at the Akure airport at exactly 12:20pm en route Ado Ekiti was accompanied by his running mate, Chief Bisi Egbeyemi,a former aspirant in the part, Michael Opeyemi Bamidele, Senator Ayo Arise and former PDP spokesman, Prince Dayo Adeyeye.

The APC Chairman in Ekiti, Chief Jide Awe,his counterpart in Ondo, Engr Ade Adetimehin and other leaders of the party received him at the airport.