A former Ondo State governor, Dr Olusegun Mimiko, has officially resigned his membership of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and is set to officially return to Labour Party today. But the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has kicked against the plan, saying Mimiko should remain in PDP. In a three paragraph letter addressed to the secretariat of the PDP, yesterday, and copies made available to newsmen in his Ondo home, Dr Mimiko said he took the decision based on some well thought out personal reasons. The letter read in part: “I hereby with utmost humility inform you of my decision to resign my membership of the PDP with effect from today, June 13, 2018 for some well thought out reasons. “It was an honour working with the many prominent Nigerians with whom I shared the PDP platform for the entire period I was in there as a member.” The former governor, who joined the PDP from Labour Party shortly before the 2015 presidential election, rose to become the chairman of the PDP Governor’s Forum. He is said to have dumped the party following disagreement with some party leaders. Mimiko, who was the governor of  Ondo  State  between February 2009 and 2017, is said to have concluded plan to return to Labour Party at his Ward 7 in Ondo West Local Government Area of the state. But NLC President Ayuba Wabba said Labour Party would no longer be accessible by desperate politicians to achieve their selfish political desires through “the use and dump attitude.” Also speaking, Dr. Mike Omotosho, national chairman of the party said NLC was fully aware of plans by Dr. Olusegun Mimiko to destabilize the current gains being made by workers to reclaim and reposition the Labour Party. Omotosho claimed that the sole purpose of Mimiko’s re-approach to Labour Party was to use it to launder his sagging political image. “The Labour Party is an offspring of the working class family and was midwifed by the labour movement. It is the political vehicle for Nigerian workers and the Nigerian poor. It was founded on the cornerstone of ideological clarity and class consciousness to promote and defend the political cum socio-economic interest of the working people. “There is no doubt that political journey persons like the former governor of Ondo had in the past taken advantage of the leadership challenges in the Labour Party to satisfy their fantasies for political opportunism,” he said.