Low turnout and heavy rainfall marred yesterday’s local government elections conducted by the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission across the 23 councils. The  low turnout was as a result of the early morning rain, it was gathered. The downpour also caused late arrival of electoral materials to the various polling units. Rivers State Governor Nyesom Wike arrived his Unit 7, Ward 9, Rumueprikom in Obio Akpor  Local Government Area of the state at about 12:30pm, but did not come down to cast his vote. Late arrival of electoral materials were observed at  Obio Akpor, Eleme, Degema Port Harcourt and Oyigbo Local Government Areas. Governor Wike commended the Rivers State Independent Electoral Commission (RSIEC)  for “conducting credible elections. He  also commended security agencies for ensuring that the elections were  peaceful. Speaking after monitoring elections in Port Harcourt and Obio/Akpor Local Government Areas, Governor Wike said the non-participation of the All Progressives Congress (APC) was “one of the reasons the process was peaceful”. He said: “Sixty-six out of sixty-eight political parties participated, but no violence.  That means that, if APC had participated, probably we would have seen violence. “Sixty-six political parties, no violence, no shooting, nobody has died. But, if the APC had participated, they would want to coerce security agencies, they would do all manners of negative things like bringing cultists to shoot. You can see that nobody hijacked materials. Everything has been peaceful”. The governor noted that the security agencies played their constitutional roles during the elections. “I have called the heads of security agencies and commended them for a job well done. That is what I have always said. Allow people to vote for those they want,” he said. He noted  that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC)  can conduct credible elections if they resist pressures from different quarters. “INEC can be committed to do the right thing.  Once they build confidence, every other thing will move on smoothly”, the governor said. Governor Wike said that he was more interested in the peaceful and credible conduct of the elections than anything else. “We have gone round two local government areas.  The elections went on peacefully and they were credible.  Election materials arrived on time, except for a few places. Like this, nobody will complain. Observers from across the board have commended the process”, he added. Earlier in the day,  there were rumours that the election would not hold, pending the determination of the suit by some aggrieved persons.