The Enugu State caucus in the National Assembly, has unanimously endorsed Governor Ifeanyi Ugwuanyi for a second term in office, citing his effective leadership and entrenchment of peace and good governance in the state as the reason.  Emerging from a reception for Governor Ugwuanyi in Abuja, the members of the caucus said the endorsement was predicated on the governor’s development strides and his leadership style characterized by justice, equity and peace. The reception was attended by notable political leaders such as the Deputy President of the Senate, Senator Ike Ekweremadu on behalf of all the federal lawmakers from Enugu State. Others who graced the event included Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, former Speaker, Umar Ghali N’Abba, former Governor of Enugu State, Dr. Okwesilieze Nwodo  and the Director-General of Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu. Daily Trust reports that the occasion was an opportunity for Dogara, N’Abba, Nwodo, Okechukwu and others to eulogize Ugwuanyi for “his visible achievements, non-discriminatory, humble disposition and peaceful approach to governance in Enugu State.”  According to Senator Ekweremadu, “Governor Ugwuanyi has connected with the people of Enugu State in a very peculiar way. “Today, communities have their liaison officers, and they execute projects. Everybody is part and parcel of government.  “Since 1999, we usually had crisis, troubles, and major misunderstandings any year preceding general elections. At times, we wondered if we would survive it. It happened in 1998, 2002, 2006, 2010, and it happened in 2014. But today, we are in 2018, and Enugu has been adjudged the most peaceful state.  “If you look around here, there are people from the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA), leaders of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Enugu, and those from the People’s Democratic Party (PDP). That is how we live in Enugu State. There is no discrimination, no division. We have 17 Local Government Areas in Enugu State. None of them is complaining of marginalization. “Therefore, I have the mandate of the members of the Enugu State caucus at the National Assembly, and I also believe all our people who live in Abuja, to say that on account of the peace you have brought and all the work you have done for the last three years, we have no hesitation whatsoever in endorsing you for one more term in 2019.” Responding, Governor Ugwuanyi, who expressed gratitude to the Enugu caucus of the National Assembly for their show of love and support, said that the prevailing peace and cooperation between the federal lawmakers and his administration have resulted in numerous constituency projects and Federal Government interventions in the State. He assured that the years of dichotomy now belonged to the past. Ugwuanyi said: “We have become one people united by the determination to develop our state and we will continue to remain one family. With your support and prayers, I will continue to lead an Enugu State where peace, justice, and equitable development remain the watchword. We will continue to work together to build that same united, prosperous, and great Enugu State envisioned by our fathers.” End