The Interfaith Network Against Corruption (INAC) has taken its campaign against corruption to primary school pupils with the aim of inculcating the virtues of truth and uprightness in them so as to shun and detest corruption. The sensitization workshop with a theme “catch them young” held at the Aminu Kano Centre for Democratic Research and Training, Mubayya House, with selected primary school pupils in attendance. In his address to the children, the Acting chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Malam Ibrahim Magu, who was represented by a staff of the commission, Hajiya Zainab Bello,spoke on the topic “The bad effects of corruption on Nigeria and Nigerians” in which he traced the history of how and why the commission was established about 15yeras ago. Mr Magu said it was a result of the bad effects and the harm done to Nigeria and Nigerians by corrupt people and corrupt practices, both within and outside the country, that compelled the government of the at that time to establish the commission, which he said has done tremendously well in redeeming the image of the country. He reminded the children that corruption has no faith. Those that engage in corrupt practices are united in their evil act, hence the need to be united, regardless of religion, tribe or geographical location, in order to succeed in the fight against the menace of corruption. Another speaker, the Imam Al-Furqan Mosque, Dr Bashir Aliyu Umar, who spoke on “the meaning of corruption, the Islamic Perspective” said any form of atrocities means corruption in islam. Dr Umar added that even among animals there is a particular one that knows nothing but committing atrocities. And that animal he said is ‘rat’ and reminded the children that those that engage in bribery and corruption are much like rats that causes nothing but destruction among people. He therefore called on the school pupils to shun all forms of behavior that will make them be like rats. On his part, Right Reverend John Namaza Niyiring,the Catholic Bishop of Kano Diocese, told the school pupils how the association (INAC) was formed back in 2016 with the sole aim of fighting corruption using interfaith platform. “It is for the whole of northern Nigeria and it is for both Muslims and Christians. There is a similar organization in the southern part of the country and it was established to fight against corruption and we realized that our greatest weapon is prayer, so religious leaders are engaged to fight against the menace,” he said. The Workshop was a series of activities funded by MacArthur Foundation which are handled by Mubayya House along five other trustees. 