Detectives from the Lagos State Command have arrested a 22-year-old sales man, Meshack Felix, for allegedly abducting his boss’s grandson. Also arrested was the sales man’s younger brother, one Chinecherem Felix. His younger brother was arrested for allegedly providing his bank account for the ransom to be paid into. Lagos state Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal while parading the suspects at the state command Ikeja on Thursday,  advised parents and guardians to be cautious of persons they employed. He said: “On June 14, 2018,the command received a complaint from one Mary Chidi of Dog Kennel Railway Compound, Ebute Metta, Lagos, that she suspected that one Meshack Felix who worked as a waiter in her restaurant abducted her three year-old son and took him to unknown destination. She also stated that two days after the disappearance of her son,  the said Meshack texted her a Diamond Bank account number 0081873532 belonging to one Chinecherem Felix, demanding a ransom of N600,000, else the boy would be killed.” Edgal added that following the compliant, he directed the Officer in Charge of the Anti-kidnapping Squad to investigate the kidnapping of the boy. He said: “The Squad went into action immediately and covertly located the suspects at Lokpanta Autonomous Community of Umu-Nneochi Local Government Area, Abia State where the two suspects were arrested. The police rescued the boy unhurt and he has since been reunited with his family.” Narrating how his son was kidnapped, Mr. Chidi said “The boy is my only child. He is staying with his mother in my mother-in-law’s house. My mother in-law has a restaurant and my boy my wife stay with her. Sadly, when nobody was paying attention, Meshack took my son away. He kidnapped him and took him to Abia state. This is a young man I felt needed help and as an Igbo man like me, I decided to help him. I gave him my clothes and shoes to help him look good but look at the way he repaid me”, he said. Grandmother of the kidnapped boy said: “This is a boy that I helped because he came into my restaurant and begged for a job. I made a mistake by not asking for a guarantor or do any due diligence. I pay him N800 every day but he had ulterior motives against me and my family.” The suspect however, blamed himself for the kidnapping. He said: “My brother, Chinecherem, does not know anything about the kidnapping. I kidnapped the boy alone and demanded for the ransom so that I can get money to buy equipment for my welding job.  I am a welder by profession but there is no money for me to start on my own business”, he said.