The Nigeria Police yesterday gave Senate President Bukola Saraki 48 hours to respond to allegations against him by suspects arrested in connection with Armed Robbery attack in Offa, Kwara State. Police had on Sunday invited Saraki for questioning following alleged confession by the suspects that they were working as political thugs for Saraki and Kwara State Governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed. It was gathered that the police cancelled Saraki’s invitation in a letter sent to him yesterday afternoon. Saraki had on his Twitter handle said he directed his Aide-De-Camp (ADC), SP Usman Dunguza to get the letter of invitation from the police. A source said it was shortly after the ADC returned that the letter cancelling the invitation was sent. “In the letter, they asked the Senate President to respond in writing within 48 hours the allegations levelled against him. He is not to appear again,” he said. Saraki also confirmed the cancellation of his invitation on Twitter: “Following my earlier tweet, I have received the letter from Police. They are no longer asking me to appear at any station, but to respond in writing to the allegations within 48 hours - which I plan to do.” Osinbajo meets IGP, DSS boss over Saraki issue Vice President Yemi Osinbajo yesterday met with the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, at the Aso Rock Presidential Villa in Abuja. It was gathered that the meeting was on the invitation of Saraki by the police over his alleged relationship with suspects arrested over the April 5 bank robbery in Offa, Kwara State. The close-door meeting, held at the vice president’s office, lasted about an hour. Also in attendance were the Attorney-General of the Federation, Abubakar Malami and the Director-General of the Department of State Security, Lawal Daura. After the meeting, the IGP refused to speak to State House correspondents. When approached for an interview, he directed the journalists to the Aide-De-Camp of the vice president. President Muhammadu Buhari had earlier yesterday met with service chiefs and heads of other security agencies.