Mr Dickson Akoh, the National Commandant, Peace Corps of Nigeria (PCN), has appealed to the Inspector General of Police (IG-P), Mr Ibrahim Idris, to unseal the headquarters of the corps in Jabi, Abuja. Akoh also called on stakeholders in security sector to urge the IG-P to obey the rule of law. He made the call at a news conference on Wednesday in Abuja. Akoh said the Attorney General of the Federation, National Human Rights and other well meaning Nigerians should intervene and ensure the police follow the court order. He said the organisation had not committed any known crime under the laws of the country.
“We are ever ready to defend ourselves before any court of law as it is our wish to clear ourselves of any allegations. “In a civilised society where the rule of law is supreme and respected by institutions of government and individuals, it is expected that the police comply with valid court orders. “With the continuous disregard to all court judgment in respect of our matter, our members are becoming agitated to go and take over the headquarters premises in line with court orders,” Akoh said. He recalled that in the last 10 years, the organisation had won over 15 judgments in the court.
“It is no longer contestable that the rule of law is the bedrock of democracy.
“And if that is generally accepted, then the action of the IG-P in disobeying valid court orders with brazen impunity and selective victimisation of innocent Nigerians must be quite disturbing to all lovers of democracy,” he said. Besides, Akoh appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to redirect the IG-P to order his men to vacate the premises of the corps in the interest of equity, fairness and justice. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) recalls that Akoh was discharged by a Federal High Court presided by Justice John Tsoho on June 12 on the 13-count criminal charges preferred against him by the police. The Police had in March 2017, slammed Akoh with a 90-count charge but later amended it to 13 charges, after it was observed that most of the charges were repetitive. The House of Representatives Committee on Public Petitions had in February 2018, also ordered the police also to respect subsisting court orders by un-unsealing the PCN headquarters.
The office had been under lock since Feb. 28, 2017. (NAN)