Centre for Social Justice (CSJ) has identified poor water supply, lack of functional renewable energy installations and insecurity as some of the challenges facing the newly recruited Primary Health Centres (PHCs) in the state. This was contained in the report of findings and recommendations of monitoring exercise on the state of PHCs in the state conducted by the Centre.  The program officer, Good governance, Victor Emejuiwe who presented the report told newsmen that after visiting 10 PHCs in five Local Government Areas of the state, it was observed that most of the renovated PHCs have bore hole dug but for one reason or the other, they are not functional. The monitors according to him also discovered that services of casual workers were withdrawn from the state health services, which affected the security personnel of PHCs.  “The lack of security personnel poses grave danger to the protection of staff and equipment in the PHCs,” he said noting that there is need to immediately reconsider the decision to employ security personnel to the PHCs and also provide adequate fencing of the facilities,”  The report further stated that most of the renovated PHCs have provision for inverters, solar panels and solar fridge but due to lack of maintenance, the re-installations are either not properly working or not functional. While the provision of these facilities have been proven to be the best energy options for the PHCs, the report stressed that they must be properly maintained to serve the purpose for which they were procured.  While the Centre commended that most of the PHCs offer all the required minimum services provided by the service guidelines in the Minimum Service Package; it lamented there is disproportionate distribution of staff in the PHCs as some have adequate staff while others have shortage of staff.  The Centre therefore recommended that the Federal Government implement section 11 of the National Health Act by allocating one percent Consolidated Revenue Fund (CRF) for the implementation of the Basic Health Care Provision Fund (BHCPF); noting that this will assist the state government to revitalize PHCs infrastructures in their states as well as provide for adequate human resources and equipment.  It also urged the state government to partner with the FG, international partners and the private sector to identify PHCs which require upgrade and make its contribution to access the one percent CRF for PHCs revitalization. It further called on the state government to recruit more staff to be deployed to PHC and make adequate provision for the training and re-training of existing staff.  “Casual workers and volunteers should be adequately empowered with the required skills and compensation. Also the state should make adequate budgetary provisions for the development of PHC services in the state as well as attract more funding for primary health care by signing and implementing the Kaduna state health insurance contributory scheme. Premiums from community based health insurance scheme can contribute largely to the funding of the PHCs,” the centre recommended.