The United Church of Christ in Nations also known as HEKAN church has called for sack of service chiefs in Nigeria as well as arrest of Miyetti Allah leader over the killing of innocent citizens at Numan local government area of Adamawa state as well as the recent killings in Barkin Ladi, Riyom and Jos South Local Government areas of Plateau state. The President of the Church, Reverend Amos G. Kiri in a statement issued yesterday condemned the incessant killing of innocent citizens in parts of the country while he called on President Muhammadu Buhari to as a matter of urgency overhaul the nation’s security chiefs for their inability to adequately curtail the gruesome murder that has been going on in many parts of this country. He also condemned the statement credited to the leader of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAC), ‘that the attack in Plateau state was retaliatory for the killing of cattle’. “This leaves one to wonder when the life of an animal, a cow for that matter becomes more valuable than a human life in Nigeria,” he lamented. While he expressed that the senseless and inhuman attacks that resulted in the death of over 200 people, scores injured and properties destroyed is unacceptable; he urged the Federal Government to step up security measures in order to end the wanton killing of innocent citizens and destruction of properties across the country. “The recent attacks by suspected herdsmen in Adamawa and Plateau states and other vulnerable states is an attempt to break our renewed bond of friendship that cut across religious and ethnic lines and to also disrupt the peace enjoyed by all in the affected states. As a Church, we condemn this horrible and gruesome murder of innocent men, women and children who went about their normal and routine business of seeking just and honest means of livelihood,” “The condemnation of these attacks by the security operatives mandated to protect the lives of citizens is not enough. The culprits should be arrested, prosecuted in a competent court of law and allow the law of the land to take its cause. The arrest should start with the Miyetti Allah leadership who has owned up the attacks by their unguarded statement. We are also saddened that up till now, no person has been taken to court for the killings in Numan, Adamawa state. We believe there will never be any justifiable reason for such attack and violence on innocent citizens,” he said. Reverend Amos however appealed to government all level to rise to its responsibility of protecting lives and property irrespective of any differences while he also asked the federal government to as a matter of urgency, order a coordinated air raid and ground attack on the identified soft spots around the country,  especially in states including: Adamawa, Plateau, Taraba, Benue, Zamfara and Birnin Gwari in Kaduna state so as to get rid of the criminals and other crime related persons from their hide outs. 