The Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, has urged the federal government to intensify effort towards addressing security challenges in Zamfara and other parts of the country. He made the call while paying Sallah homage to Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal at the weekend. According to him, the number of people killed in recent months in Zamfara State was beyond imagination. Although he acknowledged some measures so far taken, he said more needed to be done to effectively address the problem. He also called for fervent prayers for peace to reign in these areas and the country at large. Sultan Sa’ad further advised that there should be no sacred cows in the ongoing fight against corruption in the country. “Whoever did wrong should be punished accordingly,” he counselled. He lauded the federal government for banning the sale and production of substances with codeine in the country and urged state governments to set up a taskforce to enforce the ban in their respective states. The monarch noted with dismay the poor sanitary condition of Sokoto metropolis, urging for quick evacuation of refuse that littered the city. While commending the state government for sustaining Ramadan feeding programme, he appealed to it to provide the requirements of the new Wazirin Sokoto and some newly installed District Heads. Responding Governor Tambuwal said already agencies responsible for refuse collection and evacuation have been directed to ensure immediate evacuation of the refuse in the metropolis. He added that the taskforce was already in place working with relevant security agencies to ensure the enforcement of ban on codeine in the state. Tambuwal further said that the state government in collaboration with security agencies was working round the clock to ensure effective security in the state. He thanked the Sultan and other traditional rulers for their advice which he said were yielding fruitful results, reassuring them of government’s resolve to improve the welfare of traditional rulers in the state.