President Muhammadu Buhari says Nigeria is safe and secure for  tourism, citing improved security and country’s burgeoning economy. The President stated this when he received Mr Zurab Pololikashvili,  the Secretary-General of United Nations World Tourism Organisation  (UNWTO) at the Presidential Villa, Abuja, on Tuesday. President Buhari noted that it would have been inconceivable to host  an international tourism conference in Abuja four years ago, because of  security concerns. ‘‘I am pleased that the country is now sufficiently safe and secure,  and the message should go out to the world for all tourists and business  travellers. “The first thing tourists look out for is security and I am happy we have it now. ‘‘Minister Lai Mohammed has been trying to convince the world that  Nigeria is safe and has great potentials for tourism and investment. “I am glad that you and your team have come here to see things for  yourself,’’ the President told the UN tourism chief, who is in Abuja for  the 61st UNWTO Commission for Africa (CAF) conference. While highlighting the nexus between tourism and sustainable  development, the President said Nigeria would not be left behind in  ensuring that communities and businesses benefit from tourism  development. In his remarks, Pololikashvili commended Nigeria for the successful  hosting of the conference which brought together African Ministers of  Tourism, principal executives of the global tourism body and other  stakeholders in the tourism sector. The UN tourism chief told the President Nigeria had huge potential to develop the tourism sector considering its large economy. ‘‘We can do it in Nigeria, we can create, convert Nigeria to the main  tourist destination in Africa. There is a huge potential here. Culture,  nature, food you have everything here. ‘‘You are investing in agriculture, improving seamless travel through  visa-on-arrival programme, reforming the economy and doing so much on  security. Nigeria is safe,’’ Pololikashvili said. Also speaking, the Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai  Mohammed, said 166 delegates, including 26 tourism ministers from Africa  are attending the UN tourism conference, holding from June 4 to June 6  in Abuja.(NAN)