Rivers State chapter of the Brotherhood of the Cross and Star (BCS) has condemned the violence and incessant killings in the state. The group also said it has concluded plans to host ‘Lighting of Centenary Torch of the Ancient of Days’ billed for June 9-10, 2018 in the state. BCS’ Rivers State administrator, Christ Ambassador Dagogo Obene, disclosed this while addressing newsmen in Port Harcourt on Monday. According to him, “‘Lighting of Centenary Torch of the Ancient of Days’ and divine anointing of the children of God in Rivers State is in commemoration of the physical manifestation of the Founder and Sustainer of Brotherhood of the Cross and Star, Leader Olumba Olumba Obu, about 100 years ago, specifically, since 30th December, 1918. “The lighting of the Centenary Torch of the Ancient of Days, a prelude to a year-long centenary celebration is scheduled for the 9th and 10th of June, 2018. Activities marking the centenary are scheduled for the whole of 2018, tagged ‘The Year of Leader Olumba Olumba Obu’. Grand Finale is billed for the 30th of December, 2018 at the U. J. Esuene Stadium, Calabar, Cross River State.” Obene added: “whilst the lighting of the Centenary Torch is taking place from Nation to Nation and State to State, the Torch of the Centenary will be received in Rivers State at the BCS Cathedral (Hqtrs), 125 Aggrey Road, Port Harcourt, Rivers State.” Speaking on the purpose of the event, he said, it’s the “anointing of the children of God to prepare them adequately for the tasks ahead. Whoever witnesses the Light shall never experience darkness. The movement of the Torch sensitizes and mobilizes all children of God to attend the centenary celebration of the Divine Manifestation of Leader Olumba Olumba Obu.” The Administrator further noted: “A centenary Torch team shall arrive Port Harcourt on Thursday, 8th June, 2018, while the event holds on the 9th and 10th of June, 2018. It is a highly spiritual and power-packed event. Highlights of the event shall include: spiritual sealing of the children of God through divine anointing, purification through fasting, confession of sins and prayers, evangelism, visits to dignitaries, procession, lighting of the Centenary Torch of the Ancient of Days, among others. “The event marks the celebration of God in human form. The celebration shall witness great fortunes, spiritual emancipation of mankind universally, profound peace, prosperity, spiritual/physical elevation and satisfaction, among others.” He urged residents of the state to take advantage of the opportunity to enjoy God’s endless blessings.