It is no longer news that the Super Eagles have crashed out of the ongoing FIFA World Cup in Russia after succumbing 1-2 to Argentina in their last group match played on Tuesday in Saint Petersburg. What is however news is the reactions that have continued to trail the disappointing run of the team which once raised the hopes of millions of Nigerians by being the first African team to qualify for the 2018 World Cup. Making their sixth appearance in the World Cup, expectations were that the Eagles would better their previous records by becoming the first African team to reach the semi-finals. The Eagles had shocked the world in 1994 when they debuted at the World Cup in the USA and also reached the round of 16. They would repeat the same feat in 1998 in France and 2014 in Brazil. Thus, it was widely believed that with a new generation of players who are plying their trade in Europe with some renowned teams, the Eagles would go a step higher in Russia. Unfortunately, the hopes of Nigerians were dashed as the Eagles failed to progress from the group D that comprised of Croatia, Argentina and debutants, Iceland. As expected, the dismal showing by the Super Eagles has elicited mixed reactions from football loving Nigerians, with many wondering why with all the hype before the World Cup, the team still failed to soar. SHOT! takes a look at least five out of so many other reasons the Gernot Rohr led team couldn’t surmount the group D hurdles to reach at least the round of 16 in Russia. Poor start against Croatia- The Eagles started their campaign on a poor note losing 0-2 to European giants, Croatia who paraded a compact midfield anchored on Real Madrid maestro Lucas Modric. The worry expressed by most Nigerian football analysts came to pass as the Croats literally controlled the midfield thereby cutting off supplies to the Super Eagles attackers. Former Super Eagles goalkeeper, Dosu Joseph told SHOT! that the defeat against Croatia set the tone for the team’s early exit. “Losing the first game to Croatia didn’t help our campaign. After the defeat, morale was low. The Eagles needed to regroup. They were able to pick the pieces against Iceland but our next opponents, Argentina were terribly wounded. We got all the chances to kill them but we couldn’t and they dealt with us again.” Poor utilisation of players- After selecting the best 23 players for the World Cup, the technical crew led by Gernot Rohr ended up not making judicious use of the players. It was clear from the performance of the team that some of the players were played out of position. After the loss to Croatia, the major talking point was the strange role Rohr assigned to the captain of the team, John Mikel Obi. He was played in an offensive position contrary to his familiar ball holding position. Following criticisms, he was brought back to his normal position against Iceland and his presence was felt. Apart from Mikel, the wing backs, Shehu Abdullahi and Bryan Idowu offered little or no support to the attack. Technical Adviser of Akwa United and Flying Eagles assistant coach, Abdul Maikaba in an earlier interview with SHOT! said “Our full backs are not adventurous. They are not good going forward. We need to have full backs that can complement our offensive play. And I don’t think we have such players in the team at present. A player like Bryan Idowu is playing in the left full back but he is more of a right footed player. So you don’t expect good delivery from him from the left.” In addition, many are wondering why Rohr desperately sought for a big nine but didn’t make use of Simeon Nwankwo when he found him. Players’ inexperience- Apart from five players, John Mikel Obi, Ahmed Musa, Victor Moses, Onazi Ogenyi and Kenneth Omeruo, the rest of the players made their World Cup debut in Russia. Considering that the World Cup is a gathering of the best players available, some of the rookies failed to raise their game above their individual capacities. At the level of the World Cup, experience is key. This explains why Ahmed Musa showed great composure in scoring his second World Cup brace against Iceland. A former Super Eagles captain, Chief Segun Odegbami while reacting to the loss against Argentina said “The journey has ended. For Nigeria and for Nigerians the World Cup adventure is over.  Even without playing well the Super Eagles could have run away with a victory, or a draw at least. “The inexperience of some players at key moments, the coach who ran out of ideas about how to manage the last 10 minutes of a match that was not really difficult, and the reality that the best effort by the Eagles was just not good enough on the night, made the end rather painful and sobering.” Defeats in final warm-up matches- This is another factor that contributed to the lacklustre performance of the Super Eagles. The team failed to pick a win in their last three pre-World Cup friendly matches. In their farewell match in Port-Harcourt against Congo DR, the Eagles were forced to a 1-1 draw. They lost 1-2 to the Three Lions of England at Wembley and then fell 0-1 to Czech Republic in Austria in their last match. Consequently, the team did not land in Russia on a high. Politicking in Russia- It is an open secret that elections into the next board of the Nigeria Football Federation are scheduled to hold in September. Consequently, it is said the NFF sponsored at least 400 football ‘stakeholders’ to Russia to support the Super Eagles and also strategise ahead of the coming elections. Unfortunately, the heavy influx of ‘sponsored stakeholders’ to Russia proved to be a major distraction to the team. Instead of concentrating on finding solutions to the team’s poor performance, it is said more attention was on plotting for the return of the present leadership of the NFF.