A 70 year-old man who was identified as a retired military officer allegedly committed suicide two days ago in Oro town, a community in Odigbo local government area of Ondo state. Daily Trust learnt that the deceased, identified as Boluwaji Adenugba, committed suicide by pulling the trigger of a dane gun on himself in his house. A farmer and father of five, Adenugba was said to have taken the action shortly after returning home from his farm where he went  hunting  for  animals. A source said the deceased was a leader and chief in the community where he’s popularly known as “Old Soja” He was said to have had a minor disagreement with one of his daughters before the unfortunate incident The source claimed the retired officer, while the argument was going on, rushed into his room in annoyance, locked the door before killing himself with the dane gun. The noise of the gun was said to have attracted neighbours to the house who forced the door opened and discovered him in a pool of his blood. Family members of the late retired soldier including other neighbours were said to have raised alarm which later attracted other sympathizers to the scene of the incident. When journalists visited the community, the whole area was seen deserted, while few people on the streets were seen standing in groups discussing the development. Policemen   from Ajue police post and Ore divisional headquarters were at the scene later to investigate the matter. The corpse of late Adenugba was later moved by the police in company of his family members to the mortuary in Ore town. Speaking on the matter, a senior police officer who led others to the scene said the remains of the late military man would be deposited in the mortuary until investigation is completed on the matter. A source close to the family of the deceased who spoke under the condition of anonymity said he may have terminated his life as a result of frustration. When contacted, Police Public Relations Officer, Ondo State Police Command, Mr. Femi Joseph, confirmed the incident, he said he was waiting for details, adding that investigations have commenced.