The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) finally holds its national convention today after several postponements at the Eagle Square, Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). 1. 62 positions up for grabs The aspirants will jostle for 62 positions that will give them opportunity to become members of the APC National Executive Committee (NEC), which is the party’s decision-making organ. The positions, which have been divided into 10 each and zoned to the six geo-political zones, include national chairman, deputy national chairman (North), deputy national chairman (South), national secretary, deputy national secretary, and six national vice chairmen, one from each geo-political zone of the country (to be also known as zonal chairmen).  2.Oshiomhole ‘coronation’ today After the withdrawal all the national chairmanship aspirants, including former governor of Cross River State, Chief Clement Ebri, former governor of Edo State, Prof. Oserheimen Osunbor, and Chief Ibrahim Emokpaire from the race, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has been left as the sole aspirant for the contest today. Oshiomhole is just waiting to be crowned as the new king of the ruling party after the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari, and other key people. He expects either vote by affirmation, or through voice vote.  3.Fierce tussles For the office of the deputy national chairman of the party for the Northern region, Alhaji Farouk Adamu Aliyu from Jigawa State is out to challenge Senator Lawali Shuaibu   who currently occupies the seat. For the office of the deputy national chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo is poised to take over from Engr. Segun Oni who recently contested the APC governorship primary election in Ekiti State. Alhaji Mai Mala Buni who was also endorsed by President Buhari and some governors would also be challenged by Architect Waziri Bulama, Alhaji Kashim Imam, Barr. Mohammed Bello, and Abdulrahman Terab.  4.nPDP on focus over position of APC spokesman The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi from Kwara State, would be challenged by Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, Kwara and Abubakar Sidiq Usman, Kogi State. Pundits say the emergence of the incumbent spokesman will signify the willingness to absorb members of the aggrieved nPDP since he is seen as a core loyalist of Senate President Bukola Saraki.