The Bishop of Anglican Diocese of Kaduna, The RT. Reverend Timothy Yahaya has described the incessant killing of innocent Nigerians by suspected herdsmen as an act of terrorism and becoming a holocaust.  He said this Friday in an interview at the first session of the 21st Synod of the Anglican Communion. Reacting to the recent Plateau killings, he said that successful attacks on villages, particularly in the open day time shows that the security architecture of the country is faulty.  He however stated that the killer herdsmen be declared terrorists. "In Nigeria, we talk with many sides of the mouth. We proscribed Biafra and called them terrorists, go and dig the facts and tell me how many people they have killed and how much damage they have done to the country that the Fulani herdsmen have not over taken?"  "These people are agitating that they are being marginalized, what are the killer herdsmen agitating for? Since the last four years, there has been a dramatic twist on the wave, dynamics and sophistication of insecurity in Nigeria. Insecurity which used to be one of the lowest concerns in the hierarchy of Nigeria's social problems has now assumed an alarming proportion,"  "A time, we thought that corruption and power failure have the crown of our problems; insecurity in the country has now taken the centre stage. Those that believe that insecurity in the country is an exclusive reserve of a particular region are not in tune with the current realities. The pattern of insecurity in the country has been regionalized with militia group's in the North, kidnappers in the Eastern and Southern part of the country; ritual killing in the West, political a non-political calculated assassinations across the nation,"  "The regionalized structure of insecurity has also given rise to regional unlegislated security formation in the country in a bid to curtail the alarming rate of insecurity," he lamented, stressing that addressing the security challenges of Nigeria ultimately requires not only the causes of threats but also a critical evaluation of the performance of security agencies in handling the situation in Nigeria.  The way forward according to him is a leadership that is pragmatic, sincere and ready to deliver justice. "For the incident that happened in Plateau state, the GOC, Commissioner of Police, DPO and everyone in the hierarchy that suppose to stop the killings but allowed it happen should be sacked.  "Also, if the service chiefs have shame, value for life and if they have honour and dignity, they will resign. This is what civilized people do," he said