The FCT minister,  Muhammad Musa Bello,  has again,  imposed  curfew on Bwari town,  barely  a few months after he lifted one. The minister had imposed curfew on the town last December when ethno-religious riots erupted in Bwari on Christmas Day. A statement issued by the special  assistant to the minister on media and publicity,  Abubakar  Sani, yesterday, said the curfew was to tame any crisis that may arise again in the area. “Accordingly, a 8pm to 6am curfew is hereby imposed on Bwari from today Saturday June 16 while the curfew will run from 6pm to 6am from Sunday June 17th until further notice,” the minister said. He said the FCT administration was deeply concerned over attempts by some miscreants to take advantage of the Sallah celebration to reincarnate the December 25, 2017 crisis in Bwari Area Council. He said report reaching the administration indicated that some miscreants took advantage of the on-going Eid-el-Fitr celebrations to launch attacks on innocent residents of the town on Saturday June 16, 2018. He said it took the security agencies’ intervention to bring the situation under control. He said the FCT administration would not condone attempts by any group of persons to precipitate the breakdown of law and order in Bwari Area Council or indeed any part of the FCT. “As you are already aware, following the December 25th crisis, a 6pm to 6am curfew was imposed on Bwari but was relaxed to 10pm to 6am after a satisfactory assessment of the situation and return to normalcy,” he recalled. He stated that the renewed attempt to disturb the peace of Bwari town called for stringent measures in order to protect lives and property as well as forestall the breakdown of law and order. Bello, therefore, directed security agencies to ensure that residents complied fully with the curfew, while calling on residents to continue to be law abiding and go about their lawful activities. City News gathered that some suspected thugs and  miscreants wielding sticks and cutlasses were threatening passersby when the Sarkin Bwari,  Alhaji Muhammad Ijakoro, rode a horse going round the metropolis greeting residents as they marked the Sallah celebration in the area on Saturday.