An investigator with the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) said there was no letter from the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) for the recall of projects initiated under the Subsidy Reinvestment and Empowerment Program (SURE-P). The investigator, Saidu Mohammed, said this while giving testimony before an FCT High Court in Zuba in the ongoing trial of a United Kingdom-based Professor of Neurology, Reuben Oluwakinmilehin Obaro and his wife, Ayodele Olubunmi. The couple were accused of misappropriating N233.6 million of the N450m seed grant from SURE-P for the establishment of a stroke centre in Nigeria through their company, Stephen James Healthcare Limited. Mohammed told the court that the investigation was launched after SURE-P had folded up and the funds were being mopped up for accountability, but added that there was no letter from SURE-P or the SGF’s office directing the recall of all the projects although he was aware a correspondence was ongoing. He said in the course of the investigation, the last three chairmen of SURE-P - Dr Christopher Kolade, Gen Martin Agwai (rtd) and Dr Ishaya Akan - were not invited to give statements on the status of the projects. He added that though a letter was sent to the SGF’s office, which had supervisory control over SURE-P, no statement was taken from anyone from the office. On the land approved for the establishment of the stroke centre, the investigator said payments for the land situated in Gudu were made before the release of the seed grant and that there was a structure on the land, which had been cleared before the ICPC requested the Federal Capital Development Authority (FCDA) to inspect and give valuation of the land. He said the cost of the demolishing was not contained in the valuation. ICPC had alleged that N185m out of the seed grant the couple received was purportedly used for the payment for a plot of land which documents revealed had been theirs since 2013. The witness further told the court that he was not aware that before the seed grant was released to the defendants in September, 2016, they had been spending their personal money on execution of the project. He added that the claim by the defendants of organizing an awareness lecture funded from their personal money before the money was released was not investigated further because it was considered unnecessary. The trial judge, Justice A.O. Ebong adjourned the matter to July 5 and 9 for continuation of hearing.