The pioneer chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (lCPC) and first Wakilin Ilorin, Justice Mustapha Akanbi, is dead. The renowned anti-corruption tsar passed on in the early hours of Sunday at the age of 85. The son of the late octogenarian, Professor Muhammad Akanbi, confirmed the death of the late jurist. Justice Akanbi’s remains were interred at his Ilorin GRA residence around 2.30pm yesterday after a Janazah prayer led by the Chief Imam of Ilorin, Sheikh Mohammed Bashir. The late legal luminary is survived by children, including, Alhaji Abdulhakeem Akanbi, Dr Uthman Shehu Akanbi, Professor Muhammad Akanbi, Barrister Ahmed Akanbi, Barrister Abdulkadir Akanbi, Magistrate Ash-mau Tanwa (nee Akanbi), and many grandchildren. Akanbi’s wife late Mrs Mufaatu Aduke died about three years ago. Justice Mustapha Muhammed Adebayo Akanbi was born on September 11, 1932 in Accra, Ghana (former Gold Coast), where his parents were residing at the time of his birth. He spent his first 20 years in Ghana where he obtained his primary and secondary school education. He started as a teacher, executive officer and later got scholarship by Nigeria Government to study Law in London. He rose through the rank from state counsel to the President of the Court of Appeal. Justice Mustapha Akanbi voluntarily retired as President of the Court of Appeal, a decision that took everybody, especially his colleagues in the profession and associates, by surprise. He was the first high ranking judicial officer to voluntarily retire from the bench before the retirement age. Having served the country in various capacities, Justice Akanbi in September 1992 became the President Court of Appeal (Nigeria), the month he clocked 60 years, the post he held until he voluntarily retired in January 1999 before reaching the retirement age of 70 years. Shortly after his retirement from the bench, he was appointed Chairman of enquiry into embezzlement of funds and problems in the National Fertilizer Company Limited (NAFCON) at Onne, Port Harcourt in 1999. Then President Olusegun Obasanjo also appointed him as the first chairman of the ICPC in recognition of his integrity, honesty and forthrightness as a judicial officer having retired from the bench as an incorruptible judicial activist. With his wealth of experience, he established ICPC and set the necessary machinery in motion to fight corruption. So many cases were filed in court during his tenure against highly-placed Nigerians such as the former Senate President, Adolphus Wabara, three senators and two Senior Advocates of Nigeria (SAN), a Commissioner in INEC and so many others who were indicted for various corrupt practices. Justice Akanbi also made sure that those who worked with him at ICPC either in the Administrative or Legal Department were also people with proven integrity who will not compromise the philosophy and objectives of the ICPC. For the job he did at ICPC, he was offered a second term by the President Obasanjo, an offer he declined. After he left ICPC, he came to his hometown, Ilorin, and set up Mustapha Akanbi Foundation (MAF) and later Ma’assalam Islamic Foundation (MIF). He equally set up an Islamic school, primary and secondary schools and then started his humanitarian services through these organizations. On November 17, 2016, Justice Akanbi officially commissioned a private library, Mustapha Akanbi Library and Resource Centre. He continued his war against corruption and bad governance using MAF as a platform. He did this by organizing periodic lectures, symposia and by the use of handbills to educate members of the public on the evils associated with corruption and bad governance among other methods of disseminating information to the public. He also organised annual visitations to various villages and communities, hospitals, prison yards during Ramadan with provision of food items and cash donation for the host community. Justice Akanbi’s autobiography was launched on November 26, 2014 titled ‘The story of my two worlds: Challenges, Experiences and Achievements. The occasion featured twin books in his honour on that day. The second book is titled ‘M.M.A. Akanbi: A Life of Service and Grace (perspectives shared)’. The book was powered by Justice Akanbi’s course mate during the law programmes in London, Justice Muhammed M. L. Uwais (GCON), former Chief Justice of the federation. The book contains 374 pages. In recognition of his contributions through selfless service to humanity, the Emir of Ilorin, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu Gambari, conferred on him a prestigious chieftaincy title of the Wakili of Ilory, a title that no one has ever been conferred with in the history of Ilorin Emirate. Attendance at burial event Kwara State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed; retired Appeal Court President Justice Ayo Salami; pioneer Grand Kadi of Kwara State, Justice AbdulKadir Orire; Kwara State’s Chief Judge, Justice Sulyman Kawu; Mallam Yusuf Ali (SAN); Adelodun Salman (SAN); Kehinde Elena (SAN); Saka Isau (SAN) and state’s Grand Kadi, Justice Ola AbdulKadir all attended the funeral prayers. Others include former grand Kadis in the state, Imam Oba Fulani, AbdilMutalib Ambali and Solihu Mohammed, the national publicity secretary of APC, Bolaji Abdullahi, JAMB’s Registrar, Prof Ishaq Oloyede, Vice Chancellors of the university of Ilorin, Kwara State University, Malete, Al- Hikmah university; Professors Sulymam AbdulKareem, AbdulRasheed Na’ Allah and Ibrahim Taofik. Also in attendance were former Kwara Chief Judge, Justice Raliat Elelu- Habeeb; Rector, Kwara State Polytechnic, Ilorin, Mas’ud Elelu; former minister of Transport, Ibrahim Bio; former speaker, Kwara House of Assembly, Babatunde Mohammed; members of the state execution council, and prominent Islamic scholars from far and near. Buhari, Saraki, Tinubu, Ahmed, others mourn President Muhammadu Buhari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, described the late jurist as a man whose greatest asset in life was his enviable integrity and incorruptibility. Buhari expressed belief that Akanbi would be long remembered for his enormous contributions in bringing credibility and respectability to the country’s judiciary. “Being respected by the people for your honesty and patriotism is the best legacy a man can leave behind. “In a country where corruption is perceived as fashionable, Akanbi stood out as a remarkable man who put personal integrity and selflessness before the desire for money outside his legitimate income,” Buhari said. The president affirmed that Justice Akanbi’s greatest achievement was leaving the public service with his integrity intact and untainted. Similarly, Senate President Bukola Saraki, in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, expressed grief over Justice Akanbi’s death. “I am sad that Baba (Akanbi) has left us. He was fearless, courageous and spoke truth to power during his lifetime,” Saraki said. “He was like a father to me. His death is a personal loss. Kwara State will miss him. Nigeria will miss him,” he said. He stated that the late Justice Akanbi would be remembered for his unquenchable zeal to restore the principles of transparency and accountability in the country through his fight against corruption. Kwara State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed, in his condolence message, described as shocking and devastating the passing away of Justice Akanbi. Governor Ahmed in a condolence message by his Chief Press Secretary, Abdulwahab Oba, said the state and indeed Nigeria has lost a rare gem, philanthropist and revivalist. “Justice Akanbi’s years in the bench as an incorruptible judge, his stint at ICPC, struggle for good governance and involvement in community services would remain indelible in the history of Nigeria,” Dr Ahmed said. He recalled that Justice Mustapha Akanbi was among eminent Kwarans honoured by the state last year for his contributions to national development during the 50th anniversary. The National Leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) Asiwaju Bola Tinubu said Nigeria has been “diminished” by the demise of Justice Akanbi. In a statement by his media office, Tinubu said late Akanbi distinguished himself and gave the profession a good name. “Justice Akanbi was one of the few incorruptible judges the nation has ever produced. He epitomises all that is good about the judiciary,” Tinubu said. I can vouch for him anywhere - Ilorin emir Emir of Ilorin and Chairman of Kwara State Traditional Council, Alhaji Ibrahim Sulu-Gambari, expressed sadness over the death of Justice Akanbi. The emir, in his condolence message signed by the National Secretary of Shehu Alimi foundation for peace and development, Mallam Abdulazeez Arowona, described the late Akanbi as an incorruptible judicial officer who served the nation without blemish. “We were together in the judiciary at different point in time up to the Court of Appeal. I can vouch for him anywhere because he was such an indefatigable personality,” he said. The Speaker, Kwara State House of Assembly, Dr. Ali Ahmad, in condolence message by his Special Assistant on Media, Shuaib Abdulkadir, said the late jurist was an icon of Nigeria’s judiciary, stressing that his demise was a colossal loss to the nation. Also, the National Publicity Secretary of the All Progressives Congress, APC, Bolaji Abdullahi commiserated with the family of Justice Mustapha Akanbi, describing his passage as a painful and irreplaceable loss to the Ilorin Emirate, Kwara State and Nigeria as a whole. In his message, a chieftain of the APC, Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje, said during his lifetime, the late jurist served Allah wholeheartedly, the country diligently and made positive impacts on the society which made him a role model to many people in Nigeria.