The Chief of Air Staff (CAS), Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar, has warned men of the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) not to get involved in politics adding that their roles were clearly defined in the constitution as members of the force. The NAF Chief gave the warning at the NAF Headquarters in Abuja while declaring open the CAS conference with field commanders on Thursday. He added that members of the Armed Forces have the right to vote for whoever they wish to but must adhere to the guidelines of the polling station. "As members of the Armed Forces, you have the right to vote whoever we want to vote, there are guidelines on how to vote in polling stations and how you conduct yourselves. But we must as much as possible stay away from politics; we must stay away from politics. Our role is clearly defined in the constitution and we must stick to that. "What I was simply drawing the attention of my officers to is: let’s go back to the constitutional provisions and clearly understand again what the roles of military and the Air Force are suppose to be. It is just to lay emphasis so that people do not derail,” he said. He said the force is fully ready to support INEC with NAF transport facilities if called upon at any time. "In the past, INEC has asked for our support in terms of moving some of their election materials using NAF transport aircraft. So, what I am saying is that we have those facilities. “In 2015, we participated in moving all these materials around. What we are currently doing is to make sure that we have our transport aircraft in the best of shapes; should that need arise, we are willing to support if they ask," he noted. He said the aim of the Conference is to review the progress attained in the NAF since the last conference adding that the conference would afford the opportunity to critically assess the performance of the Service in the past few months. The CAS reminded the senior officers that the 2019 general election is fast approaching and therefore cautioned them not to allow themselves to be dragged into partisan politics. He further implored the senior NAF officers to stay focused on the discharge of the constitutionally assigned tasks of the NAF.