The Inspector General of Police, Alhaji Ibrahim K. Idris has been called upon to take appropriate action to forestall plans allegedly by Kwankwasiyya movement to disrupt forthcoming Sallah festivity in Kano.

Addressing a press conference Thursday, the member of the Kano State House of Assembly from Municipal local government area of the state, Alhaji Baffa Babba Dan Agundi, alleged that three prominent members of Kwankwasiyya group were planning for illegal gathering to cause public
disturbance during Sallah.

Dan Agundi alleged that the former Secretary to Kano state Government, Dr Rabi’u Suleiman Bichi, former Private Principal Secretary to Senator Kwankwaso, Dr Yunusa Adamu Dangwani and former Commissioner of state Affairs, Aminu Abdulsalam were hatching new plans to organise another illegal gathering capable of causing public disturbance during forthcoming Sallah celebrations.

The lawmaker recalled that during the last year’s Sallah Hawan Daushe Durbar, a team of supporters of Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso from Kano, Jigawa, Bauchi and Katsina state converged at Emir’s palace and disrupted public peace.

He, however, noted that during the incidence, fight ensued among the Kwankwasiyya followers due to the failure of their leaders to settle the amount they promised the hired thugs and as result Bichi,
Abdulsalam and Dangwani as well as many other members of the group were wounded.

“In view of the information available to me and as a member representing Kano municipal, where the Sallah festivity is taking place annually, I find it appropriate to draw your attention that anything that might disrupt the peaceful atmosphere in my local government and the state at large as a result of the activities of Kwankwasiyya people, the above identified persons should be held responsible,” he said.

However, in a swift reaction, Comrade Aminu Abdulsalam, a former commissioner of state affairs under Kwankwaso’s administration, disputed all the claims made by Dan Agundi, saying members of
Kwankwasiyya were peaceful and law abiding citizens.

Abdulsalam said the claims were mischievous, false and unfounded assuring that motive behind the claims could not see the light of the day.

He said, “In the history of Kwankwasiyya, we have never been involved in any violence. Despite the provocation of last year’s incidence, we were able to calm our people. We rather resorted to follow the legal ways to seek readdress. We wrote to the Inspector General of Police and Police Service Commission but to our dismay up till this moment we have not heard from the two offices.

“To put the record straight, Kwankwasiyya has been a peaceful movement in Kano and beyond. We have never participated in any form of violence. We have served as members of Kano state executive council for several years, therefore, we are responsible enough to know the importance of peace. We are in politics to promote peace.”

On the last year’s mayhem, Abdulsalam said the Kwankwasiyya had credible evidence as who led the unfortunate attack on its people and the movement would not let the matter to be carpeted.