Troops of 153 Task Battalion and the Cameroonian Defence Forces deployed in Operation Lafiya Dole have killed 10 Boko Haram terrorists at Ngelkona in Ngala Local Government Area of Borno state. The troops encountered the insurgents at about 11.30 am while on a clearance patrol along Wulgo - Ngelkona general area. In another encounter the troops in Yaridiri forest in Geidam Local Government Area of Yobe state had raided a Boko Haram hideout dispatching the terrorist who fled leaving behind more than N2 million Naira. In a statement signed by Colonel Onyema Nwachukwu, the Deputy Director Public Relations of the Theatre Command Operation of  Lafiya Dole, he explained that the terrorists were mounted on horse back  but were overpowered by the troops in a fierce shoot out. Nwachukwu added that the troops killed the insurgents and captured two AK 47 rifles from them. Other items recovered from the insurgents include one Boko Haram flag, a set of Bow and arrows, two mobile Handsets and one Cameroonian International Passport. In another development during a clearance operation, Nigerian army troops of 82 Task Force Battalion of Operation Lafiya Dole  in a night operation  attacked fleeing elements of Boko Haram insurgents at Ngoshe in Gwoza Local Government Area. The troops killed one Boko Haram Insurgent and recovered one AK 47 rifle,  41 rounds of locally fabricated ammunition and four Improvised Explosive Devices(IED). The recovered IEDs have been safely defused by the Explosive Ordnance Disposal team. In a separate operational encounter, troops of 27 Task Force Battalion of Operation Lafiya Dole yesterday successfully conducted a raid operation on a Boko Haram camp in Yaridiri forest in Geidam Local Government Area of Yobe state. In the encounter with the insurgents, the troops forced the insurgents to flee in disarray with gunshot wounds, abandoning a huge sum of money and several other items. The troops recovered three AK 47 rifle magazines, 21 rounds of 7.62 mm (Special) ammunition, a motorcycle and two mobile handsets. The troops also recovered the sum of Two million, Two Hundred  and Eight Thousand Naira (#2, 208,000.00) from the hideout. Troops have destroyed the hideout in situ.