The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) yesterday insisted that Senate President Bukola Saraki must appear in person before investigators to be interrogated over his alleged links to suspects arrested over the the Offa banks robbery. Police spokesman ACP Jimoh Moshood told Journalist in Abuja yesterday that the police did not ask Saraki to reply allegations levelled against him in writing. ýýMoshood made this known while parading two more suspects recently arrested over the robbery. He said the Police have arrested two out of the three suspects mentioned by the gang leader, Ayoade Akinnibosun during parade of suspects on June 3, 2018. Moshood said Ayoade mentioned three other suspected working according to him for Saraki, namely Alhaji Kehinde Gobiri aka Captain, Alhaji Oba Shuaib Olododo aka Jawando and Alhaji Dona. Moshood said the two suspects; Kehinde Gobiri and Oba Shuaib Olododo are now in Police custody and have admitted to various crimes and criminalities they have committed in Kwara Central Senatorial District under the guise of political thuggery for the Senate President. He noted that, “They are currently under investigation and will be charged to court on completion of investigation. “These confessions were made before the media and the public on the 3rd of June, 2018. It is therefore, evidently clear that the Senate President, Senator Bukola Saraki has case to answer,” he said. Moshood said, “It was also discovered during further investigations that three gang leaders; Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibukunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham followed Saraki to Oloffa’s Palace when the Senate President paid a condolence visit to Offa after the Bank Robbery.” He said, “New revelations from further investigation into the matter showed that all the five gang leaders namely; Ayoade Akinnibosun, Ibukunle Ogunleye, Adeola Abraham, Salawudeen Azeez, Niyi Ogundiran have direct connection to the Senate President, Sen. Bukola Saraki as new pictures of one of the five gang leaders when paraded by the Police early in the week was in ‘Aso Ebi’ (trouser) used during the Senate President daughter’s wedding.” “The Five gang leaders further admitted that they attended the Senate President daughter’s wedding held recently.” “The Nigeria Police Force will not be cowed or succumb to intimidation from any quarter in carrying out a thorough and discreet investigation into the Offa bank robbery, where significant successes have been recorded. The ongoing investigation will be driven to a logical conclusion. “The Senate President, Bukola Saraki is still under investigation in connection to the Offa bank robbery and the Nigeria Police Force will do everything possible within the ambit of the law to ensure that justice is done in this case.” When contacted on the development, the Special Adviser on Media and Publicity to Saraki, Yusuph Olaniyonu declined comment. He asked our correspondent to refer his enquiries to Saraki’s lawyer, Kanu Agabi and co. Counsel to Saraki, Kanu Agabi (SAN) did not respond to phone calls and a text message sent to him yesterday.