President Muhammadu Buhari has said no part of Nigeria would suffer neglect under his watch as he commissioned ecological projects in Tambuwal local government area of Sokoto state on Monday. "My government is committed to change the face of the entire nation and in doing that I assure you no place will suffer any neglect owing to its geographical location or political  consideration," the President reiterated.  Represented by the Minister of State for Labour and Productivity, Professor Stephen Ocheni, Buhari said his government was determined to implement all genuine policies, agreements and contracts at both national and international levels signed by the previous administration.  The project, he said was one of the 26 ecological intervention projects approved for the first quarter of last year aimed at addressing flooding and erosion menace in some communities across the nation.  "I have no doubt in my mind that this intervention will bring a huge relief to the communities which have for a very long time been stressed by these ecological challenges," he added  The President congratulated the Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr Boss Mustapha and his team in the ecological fund office and the contracting firm, Diamond Global Engineering and Consult for their doggedness in ensuring timely and speedy completion of the projects. He however, urged the communities to use the reclaiming land for economic purposes. In her remarks, the permanent secretary in charge of Ecological Fund Office, Dr. Habiba Lawal said the project was initiated through a request for urgent intervention forwarded to their office. In his remarks, the Managing Director of the contracting firm, Alhaji Muhammad Bello said the contract covered three localities, Dogon Daji, Jabo and Bashire all in Tambuwal local government area. According to him, it was awarded at the cost of N493 million and it involved road improvement at Dogon Daji, erosion control works at Bashire and works on man-made gully at Jabo. He said he was happy that the work was done within the stipulated timeframe, calling on the benefitting communities to own the project and manage it judiciously.