The Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) has recorded the highest monthly revenue collection ever attained in the sum of N100.1 billion in May 2018 just as it advocated for an upward review of its remuneration structure. The Comptroller General of Customs (CGC), retired Col. Hameed Ali, made the revenue declaration and advocated for the review during the graduation ceremony of 40 senior officers from a five-month course at the Nigeria Customs Command and Staff College, Gwagwalada in Abuja yesterday. Col. Ali, while addressing the Minister of Finance and Chairman of the Nigeria Customs Service Board (NCSB), said “Last month, May 2018, was the month we realised the highest collection in terms of monthly statistics. We collected N100.1bn. We do hope that this feat will continue and hoping that inflow of import will continue and that blocking of leakages will continue at the rate they are.” He requested for the upward salary review for officers and men of the service who are working hard to raise revenue generation saying, “The NCS is the least paid among its peers of revenue generating organizations. “With this stride and monumental increase in what we are collecting for the government, we plead to be considered in the upward raise of our own salaries. “If we do this singular act to the NCS, the sky will be the limit in terms of collection of revenue. And I believe also that it will help me in fighting the corruption that is manifest in the system,” Ali assured. While charging the graduates to put the knowledge to use, the CGC also advocated for more incentives for the college. He said, “Similar institutions in the military derive their funding directly from separate establishment Acts of parliament. We will be counting on the support of the NCS Board to work towards initiating appropriate legislative process to achieving the desired goal.” Vice President Yemi Osinbajo, who presented the Pass Staff Course (PSC) certificate to the officers, reiterated the importance of capacity building for the service. Osinbajo agreed with Col. Ali’s position in the increase of salaries for the customs in view of the giant strides it has attained in revenue collection, saying the service collected N1.3 trillion revenue in 2017 being the highest in its history. “In support of what the CGC said on better payment, I agree that an enhanced remuneration structure is deserved and should be indeed paid better especially in light of the great advances that have been made especially in revenue collection by the Customs Service,” he noted. Finance minister Adeosun, who was represented by the Director of Home Finance at the ministry and member NCSB, Mrs Olubunmi Siyanbola, charged the customs management to develop curriculum for training and retraining other stakeholders in the trade sector and assured of the board’s support.