Yobe government has closed down the only remaining camp it officially established for internally displaced persons (IDPs) in Damaturu, the state capital. The Permanent Secretary, Yobe State Emergency Management Agency (SEMA), Musa Idi Jiddawa, said the camp, which was officially established in Pompomari area by the state government on March 27, 2015 had hosted six communities of Gujba local government area. "It was established after a midnight attack by insurgents on six communities namely: Ambiya Kura, Ambiya Bulabulin, Ambiya Tasha, Sharfuri and Turo Kura of Gujba LGA" he said. Jiddawa revealed that initially the camp had a total population of 4,211 but, 2,897 IDPs voluntarily left to pursue their means of livelihood after the state government provided them with cash assistance, food items, transport fare and other incentives. "Presently, the Camp has a population of 1,314 IDPs with 318 Heads of Household and 996 dependents." he said. He said from the establishment of the camp to date, the state government has expended over N140 million for feeding, take off/routine upkeep, and medicals with special referrals of patients to hospitals within and outside the state. He however acknowledged receiving complimentary support from the Federal government and UN agencies like NEMA, VSF, PINE, PCNI, UNICEF,  UNHCR, UNFPA,  and WFP,  International and local NGOs like ICRC, ACF,  NRCS, and SMYLE among others", he added. Also speaking, the Gujba local government chairman, Alhaji Kyari Batarama, advised them to prepare for and engage in farming and animal rearing which has been their major occupation before crisis. "At our level, we will invest in agriculture to boost and retain our premium position of food basket of the state," he said. However, the state government has prepared return packages for the returning IDPs that include: 743 bags of 50kg rice; 596 Jerry cans of 25 liters vegetable oil, 541 cartons of tomato paste,  370 cartons of bathing soap, 1000 pieces of mosquitoe nets, 1,272 pieces of nylon mats,  60 bales of used clothes and cash assistance of N9,110,000 to be shared among the 318 heads of household based family size.