President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday said the opposition is sitting on “incredible” financial resources ahead of next year’s general elections, noting that he is afraid the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) may not match such resources. Receiving members of the Buhari Media Suport Organisation at the Aso Rock Presidential Villa in Abuja, he also expressed concern that despite his power of incumbency, he could not absolutely stop the mischief which, he alleged, the opposition was sponsoring against his government from different angles. President Buhari acknowledged that it was not easy for anyone to defend his administration, particularly him. He, however, thanked members of the organisation for their steadfastness in fighting the opposition “under very difficult circumstances.” “And I know you are doing it as a sacrifice, both physical, mental and material because the opposition now are sitting on incredible resources which I am afraid we might not match.” “I can remember what most of you here sitting, the sacrifices you have made in terms of materialism, even losing friends to continue to support me. “I have been here for three years. You have proven to people that you are not here for material things, your opinion is out of sacrifice and the strength of the moral courage you have is the strength of the physical.” Buhari said he knew that members of the organisation were being asked what they were benefitting from supporting him. “And that is why I commend your steadfastness, and I am very grateful for it. And in this country, whether people like it or not, they will remain grateful for your courage because you have the courage to do the research, take your time to reply mischievous representations and we’re very grateful,” he added. In his remarks, the chairman of the Buhari Media Support Organisation, Austin Braimoh, said President Buhari deserved a second term in office. He said his organisation had been making credible interventions in the media to further project the president.