The 67th World Congress of the International Press Institute (IPI) ended yesterday in Abuja with journalists and media experts sharing ideas on how news media can build trust in fact-based journalism amidst fake news phenomenon. Participants observed that the global nature of the web-based information environment allows fake news and its purveyors to make a huge impact in daily life. An Associate Professor at Northwestern University in Qatar, Mary Dedinsky recalled how a fake news report exacerbated the Gulf crisis between Qatar and its neighbours. She cited a fake report planted on the website of Qatar News Agency, quoting the Emir as criticising US “hostility” towards Iran. Although the news agency was quick to label the remark as false, it was reported across the region and caused a stir. The UAE, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain and Egypt responded by blocking Qatari media. Dedinsky therefore urged journalists and the public to make extra efforts to fact check claims and statements before spreading them. “The media needs to be more vigorous and work hard to fact check claims. Journalists have to be more responsible in doing their job now. Social media has made it somewhat difficult but we just have to keep doing it. “We need to do some marketing that what we do is genuine. When we mess up, we have to say we make mistake and apologise,” she said.  The Co Editor-in-Chief of Spain’s Público, Virginia Pérez Alonso explained how Spanish media are dealing with fake news, saying the country’s news media have set up a fact checking site where all stories (except breaking news) must be verified before they are published. She observed that so many fake news sites thrive because advertisers patronise them. “I think the media should reach out to the advertisers to be wary of such sites.” In his submission, David Ajikobi, Nigeria Editor of Africa Check, noted that fake news has health, economic and political outcomes. Media practitioners, he said, have a big role to play in contending fake news. “We have to equip our journalists very well with skills. Having this training, they will be able to gate keep very well and educate the public properly.” As part of efforts to contend fake news, he said his organisation is partnering with news media in Nigeria to help them set up a fact checking desk to verify claims and comments. Africa Check, he added, is also making effort to translate some of its fact checked reports to local Nigerian languages to help the public make informed decision, especially on information they receive on social media. A professor of Journalism and Mass Communication, University of Lagos, Prof Ralph Akinfeleye observed that some nations have passed legislations against fake news but those legislations are difficult to enforce because there were concerns over freedom of speech and the right to know in a democratic system. He, however, urged the public to be wary of fake news because it is “really bad news, it causes destruction, disharmony, war and incites people.” Speaking on the session “Under Press(ure): Covering Natural Resources and The Extractive Sector” Khadija Sharife, Africa Editor of the South African-based Organized Crime and Corruption Reporting Project (OCCRP), noted that there was high level of shady deals in the extractive sector, while mining companies often stonewall journalists, investigating them. She therefore enjoined journalists to make extra efforts to understand what is happening behind the scene. “As journalist, the responsibility is to really know your subject, because you have a duty not to provide misinformation to the public.” Another session that featured yesterday was on “When Lone Wolves Join Forces: Collaborative Investigative Reporting on Corruption, Financial Crimes and Abuse of Power”. Speakers stressed the importance of collaboration among journalists to help good journalism thrives, noting that investigative journalism is expansive and tasking. “The public understands that good journalism matters. And collaboration has really helped. It reduces the financial burdens on one person. The way forward is to strengthen the collaboration,” said Anas Aremeyaw Anas, Ghanaian undercover Investigative Journalist. Dapo Olorunyomi, Publisher of Premium Times, said, “Collaboration is the only way to survive in our environment…If you want to bring sincerity, depth and clarity to the story, this is the way to go.”  Surveillance: Journalists tasked on imbibing security tips, safety Journalists have been advised on imbibing security and safety measures while carrying out their activities especially in the digital era. Key veterans in investigative journalism and other experts gave this advice yesterday in Abuja during a session on digital surveillance at the International Press Institute (IPI) conference. They noted that digital surveillance strategies are being spearheaded by government agencies to track down critical media and opposition, and that journalists must be careful about the information they post about themselves on the social media. In investigative journalism, reporters do not want people to know what they are investigating and people they are investigating; so there are strategies journalists should take to lock off trails and protect our sources, they noted. Joan Chirwa, Editor-in-Chief, The Mast, Zambia narrated her experience as a journalist that has been put under surveillance for reports that allegedly did not favour the ruling government. She advised that journalists under such condition must be creative by using encrypted means of communication and being alert to monitor digital and physical trails. The Publisher, Premium Times, online news site, Mr Dapo Olorunyomi said attempts to muffle press freedom is growing in Nigeria with direct effect on the media and the tenets of democracy. He gave instances of such to include cybercrime law and the recent bill on ‘anti-hate speech and social media’ being pushed by lawmakers that affects freedom of expression on digital platforms. A medical expert,  Dr. Theresa, said individuals ought to have their personal space but when such space are encroached especially through monitoring emails and other devices, there could be major psychological issues. She advised that journalists should be proactive to prevent it rather than find ways to get out of it when it happens. On the effects of surveillance by security agencies on journalists, she said such actions deteriorate the journalists’ performance. It gets the brain unnecessarily wired to either fight back or back out, while such person becomes more suspicious of every move. Theresa said surveillance on journalists is a disability and must be prevented because it alters normal life. “Self-care is not selfishness but it’s a political tool to self-preservation,” she said, calling for extra measures. Some of these measures she said include journalists should build resilience as a reporter for anticipated issues so they can handle the issues when they arise; they must also build their security and safety adherence capacity because surveillance strategies are always upgraded so they should not be too comfortable. The expert also advised that journalists should create a space not necessarily on social media to share experience on surveillance issues they have had and how to prevent it for the benefit of others.