The new National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has taken oath of office. Oshiomhole, who emerged unopposed along with 25 others on Saturday, during the party’s national convention that ended yesterday in Abuja at the Eagle Square, administered oath of office on other members of the party’s National Working Committee. The Attorney General and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami administered the oath on APC National Chairman and National Secretary, Alhaji Mai Mala Buni. Those returned unopposed included Buni (National Secretary), Otunba Niyi Adebayo (Deputy National Chairman, South), Bankole Oluwajana (National Vice Chairman, South-West), Babatunde Ogala (National Legal Adviser), Alhaji Ibrahim Masari (National Welfare Secretary) and Mr Jock Alamba (Deputy National Welfare Secretary). Others were Tunde Bello (National Financial Secretary), Zakari Mohammed (Zonal Secretary, North Central), Abubakar Sadiq (Zonal Secretary, North East), Hassana Abdullahi	(Zonal Woman Leader, North Central), Nelson Abba ( Ex-officio, North Central),  Isa Azare	(Ex-officio, North-East), Tukur Gusau (Zonal Secretary, North-West), Nasiru Haladu (Ex-officio, North-West), Rachael Akpabio	(Zonal Woman Leader, South-South), and Misbahu Didi (Representative of the physically challenged). Those that emerged from keenly contested election included Bolaji Abdullahi who returned as National Publicity Secretary; Emma Eneukwu, National Vice Chairman South East; Hilliard Eta, National Vice Chairman South South; Ado Oguta, Deputy Legal Adviser; Adamu Fanda, National Treasurer; Sunday Jacob Chukwuma, Deputy National Financial Secretary; George Moghalu, National Auditor; Salamatu Umar, National Woman Leader; Barrister Ndoma Oye, Deputy National Women Leader; and Abubakar Shuaib, National Youth Leader. The newly elected party leaders also included Deputy National Youth Leader, Hafiz Bolaji; Youth Leader (North East), Kashim Bello Maigari; Youth leader (North West), Abubakar Sa’adu; Youth Leader (South West), Lanre Olanrewaju; Youth Leader (South East), Onyeka Olisemeka; Youth Leader (South South), Gabriel Iduseri; North East Organising Secretary, Shuaibu Abdulrahaman; South South Organising Secretary, Ade Fadileri; South West Organising Secretary, Femi Egbedeyi; South East Organising Secretary, Timothy Amah; South East Zonal Secretary, John Uwaede; and South South Zonal Secretary, Dave Okurgba. Others were Zonal Women Leader North West, Hanatu Buba; South East Women Leader, Blessing Onuoha; National Vice Chairman North West, Inuwa Abdulkadir; Deputy National Auditor, Isah Mabuchu; Deputy National Secretary, Victor Giedom; National Vice Chairman North East,  Mustapha Salihu; Deputy Zonal Women Leader North- East,  Amina Tumanga; Deputy National Chairman, North, Senator Lawali Shuaibu; National Organising Secretary, Barrister Emma Ibediro, and South South Ex-officio, Ndukwe Ayandu. Before the announcement of the results, there was tension. This might not be unconnected with the early morning fighting among delegates after two opposing voters from two states were accredited to enter the venue of the National Convention. President Muhammadu Buhari, who had earlier come in the morning to witness the swearing-in ceremony, had to leave the venue. The president later returned after all the outstanding issues over the results of the election had been sorted out.