The FCT Administration has flagged off the sensitization and distribution of improved seedlings to farmers affected by flooding in some area councils of the territory. The Agricultural and Rural Development Secretariat (ARDS), has distributed the seedlings to 3,000 farmers in 21 communities in Abaji, Kwali and Kuje area councils affected by flooding and erosion. Flagging off the exercise, ARDS Secretary, Stanley Nzekwe, said the initiative was part of the rebuilding effort as recommended by a committee which toured the affected areas and assessed the scale of damage caused by the flooding. Nzekwe, who was represented by the Director,  FCT Agriculture Development Project (ADP), Mr Musa Doma, said to ensure the effectiveness of the intervention to affected farmers, the FCT Minister, Muhammad Musa Bello, approved assorted farm inputs for immediate distribution to farmers in 21 communities. According to him, the items included 10.5 metric tons of rice, 10.5 metric tons of maize, 2,100 seedlings of cashew, 2,100 seedlings of oil palm, and 2, 100 seedlings of teak. He explained that while relief in the form of inputs was provided for the farmers, it was also imperative to deploy field agric extension workers of the ARDS to step down enlightenment on effective measures they can adopt to mitigate the effect of flooding. “The findings of the committee, which was conducted by the field officers of the agriculture secretariat, indicated that a total of 3,000 farmers were affected by the incident. “Though flooding is a natural phenomenon caused by heavy and continuous rainfall which causes riverbanks to overflow, there is a lot that farmers can do to mitigate losses,” he stressed. In his remarks, the chairman, Abaji Area Council, Abdulrahman Ajiya, described the initiative as precautionary and decisive, saying it would  mitigate the recurring scourge of destruction of farms by flooding. Represented by the Council Secretary, Kamal Adamu Shuaibu, Ajiya also appealed to the minister to give prompt attention when such incidents occurred and also make the scheme a permanent measure.