The  Federal Commissioner of the National Commission for Refugees, Migrants  and Internally Displaced Persons (NCFRMI), Sadiya Umar Farouq has said  over 21,000 Cameroonian refugees fleeing crisis in the country are  currently in Nigeria.

She  disclosed this while addressing a joint Press Conference with the  United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) and the Economic  Community of West Africa States (ECOWAS) in Abuja on Tuesday as part of  activities to mark this year's World Refugees Day.

"The  2018 Refugees Day is commemorated as wars and civil strife multiply and  many families are forced to flee their homes," she said. "In Nigeria,  the year has been characterised by an influx of Cameroonian refugees  fleeing clashes between the Cameroonian government and separatist  forces.

"With  a staggering figure of over 21,000 registered so far, the National  Commission for Refugees, Migrants and Internally Displaced Persons, the  UNHCR and other partners are still registering more arrivals."

The  NCFRMI Federal Commissioner also disclosed that no fewer than 1.7  million Nigerians were still internally displaced by the insurgency in  the Northeast while 200,000 others were living as refugees in  neighbouring Chad, Niger and Cameroon.

She  lamented that the refugees had outweighed the available resources thus  far, calling for the government to design a different approach in  tackling the challenges emanating from the refugees in Nigeria.

Halima  Ahmed, the ECOWAS Commissioner for Finance said the body have been  working on preventing unrest that will lead to citizens fleeing their  country.

She said: "We have our early warning mechanism with centres in all our member states."

While  adding that elections remain a major cause of crisis in the subregion,  she added that "election in Nigeria takes place next year but ECOWAS is  already working to ensure peace."

On  his part, the UNHCR representative to ECOWAS and Nigeria Antonio Jose  Canhandula said the UNHCR will continue to provide humanitarian  assistance to refugees and displaced persons in Nigeria.

He  however, called on the Nigerian and Cameroonian authorities to find  solutions to problems leading to people leaving their communities. 