The Transparency Advocacy for Development Initiative (TADI) has condemned the Non-Academic Staff Union (NASU), National Association of Academic Technologists (NAAT) and Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU) for grounding activities at the Osun State University (UniOsun).  The CSO said the activities of the union leaders have adversely affected the smooth running of the university to the detriment of the students. The Coordinator of the group, Yomi David, told newsmen in Abuja that the union leaders have made it a fancied penchant to use the unions to foment trouble and institute anomie in the university to the extent that administration and academic activities are adversely affected. He said the organisation received the news of the union contrived crisis in UniOsun with a measure of patriotic worry. According to him it is on record that the strings of unsavoury news cast the image of the university in a bad light while painting the University Vice Chancellor as lacking in administrative finesse. “Following our scrupulous scrutiny into the matter, we can boldly state that a small cartel has decided to hold UniOsun by the jugular as though it were their primitive fiefdom. The discreet and very independent visit to the university by our investigative team revealed that the agitating unions had succeeded in fouling the air of ambience in the institution while turning truth on its head and misrepresenting facts to the public. “Subsequent the allegations of financial impropriety and high handedness levelled against the Vice Chancellor of the university and the university Management. Our findings reveal otherwise that the university management have emplace measures to cut spending while adopting innovative strategies to develop the university in line with the financial prudence which the Visitor to the Osun State University espouses,” David said. He said that a threat to quality education is a threat to the advancement and economic development of the nation and urged the university management to remain steadfast in providing quality education to Nigerians with the support it gets from the relevant stakeholders. 