Kaduna State Governor Nasir el-Rufa’i has yesterday hailed the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris on the ongoing investigation into recent criminal activities in Kwara State, saying he was doing an excellent job.
The governor spoke at the 11th Ramadan lecture organised by Minister of Information and Culture Lai Mohammed in his Oro country home yesterday.
El-Rufai praised the police boss while thanking the Chief Imam of Oro, Sheikh Mukail Onisan, for praying for the nation and leaders.
“I thank the Chief Imam for his prayers for the country, President Buhari, the Inspector-General of Police, who is doing an excellent job, the Minister of Information and I, as well as others. May God accept his prayers”, el-Rufai said.
The Kaduna state governor said he was at the event because he could not meet up with last year’s invitation, even as he commended the guest lecturer, Professor Raheemson Olawale, for pointing out good things people do in the country, just as he spoke against bad practices of the people.
He prayed God to favour President Buhari with good health as he leads the country.
Also speaking, Lai Mohammed praised El-Rufai, describing him as a detribalised Nigerian that believes in merit rather than tribal or religious sentiment.
The minister also said that religious harmony brings peace and development into any community all over the world, adding that competence, capacity and merit should matter and not tribal sentiment.
Meanwhile, the minister has said that members of the National Assembly have not in any way threatened to impeach President Muhammadu Buhari.
He said this while answering questions from journalists at the Ilorin International Airport after hosting the lecture.
Daily Trust reports that the Nigeria Police Force had paraded suspects in the fatal armed robbery incident in Offa, Kwara State, who alleged that they were working as political thugs for the Senate President Bukola Saraki and Kwara State Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed, which the senator and the governor denied.
A day after parading the suspects at the police headquarters in Abuja, the National Assembly held a joint session where they passed a vote of no confidence in the IGP and threatened to invoke their powers against the president.