A governorship aspirant of the All Progressive Congress (APC) for the September 22nd gubernatorial election in Osun State, Alhaji Adegboyega Oyetola has warned that the state cannot afford to retrogress after the administration of Governor Rauf Aregbesola. Speaking with journalists at his campaign office in Osogbo, the state capital shortly after declaring his intention to contest for the post of the Governor, Oyetola said the current administration in the state performed excellently and cautioned the people to be wary of those who want to draw the state back.  Oyetola who is the Chief of Staff to the governor described the Six Point Integral Action Plan of Governor Rauf Aregbesola as the best template for good governance. The aspirant said he would fine-tune and adopt the Six Point Integral Action Plan that Governor Aregbesola used.  Oyetola explained that the Six Point Integral Action Plan which include banish hunger, banish poverty, banish unemployment, restore healthy living, promote functional education and enhancement of communal peace and progress is all inclusive and sufficient to address the need of the people of the state.  He expressed the need for continuity and promised to consolidate on the achievements of Governor Rauf Aregbesola if he is given the opportunity to succeed him. Oyetola said he wants to continue and sustain the enormous achievements of Aregbesola, saying that Osun needs a leader with steady hands who can further invest in the prosperity of the people of the state.  “We need a bridge builder, who would continue with the leadership values of the incumbent administration to unite our people, inspire them to jettison primordial sentiments and work for the development of their people, and secure a prosperous state for the benefits of our generations yet unborn.”  “What our state needs urgently is to further soar with inclusive, innovative and unwavering governance. We cannot afford to retrogress. Not anymore. The job at hand is too urgent to be left alone for just anyone unprepared.”  “I believe I am the man for such a moment as this. I have the experience. I have the pedigree, I am dependable, accessible and most of all, I am that person that will voice your concerns and represent each and every one of you at the right places. I will serve you diligently.”  “I will work for your progress. I am a loyal party man and most of all, a true and committed son of this great state. I have the consummate private sector pedigree, exposure and network, and I will leverage this for monumental economic growth and development. Commitment and service is my promise to you. Your needs and problems confronting our state is what will propel me.”  “In this journey, we shall be guided by the invaluable experiences we have acquired from the implementation of the bold Six Point Integral Action Plan of banishing hunger, poverty, unemployment, restore healthy living, promote functional education and enhancement of communal peace and progress enunciated by the Ogbeni Rauf Aregbesola led administration.”  “We will ensure that the plan is objectively reviewed for effectiveness and efficiency in order to learn from what had worked and what did not quite work. I believe we already have a template in the Six Point Integral Action Plan that we can fine-tune and make to work for all. With this, we can hit the ground running immediately”, Oyetola said