The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) finally holds its national convention today after several postponements at the Eagle Square, Abuja, the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). Security has been beefed up ahead of the venue of the convention expected to host about 7,000 delegates from the 36 states of the federation, including the FCT.  Daily Trust learnt yesterday that only statutory delegates from at least three states that had cases in courts will participate. 179 aspirants, including some incumbent members of the National Working Committee (NWC), had had picked the nomination forms to participate at the elective convention that will produce new party leaders at the national level. 62 positions up for grabs The aspirants will jostle for 62 positions that will give them opportunity to become members of the APC National Executive Committee (NEC), which is the party’s decision-making organ. The positions, which have been divided into 10 each and zoned to the six geo-political zones, include national chairman, deputy national chairman (North), deputy national chairman (South), national secretary, deputy national secretary, and six national vice chairmen, one from each geo-political zone of the country (to be also known as zonal chairmen). The positions also include six zonal youth leaders, six zonal organizing secretaries, six zonal secretaries, six zonal women leaders, and six ex-officio members, one from each geo-political zone of the country. At least 21 positions will be contested unopposed. The remaining positions will be contested if the zonal stakeholders failed to reach consensus as directed by the party governors after a meeting held last Wednesday. The Chairman of the National Convention Committee, Governor Mohammed Badaru Abubakar of Jigawa State, who fielded questions from journalists, said the governors had been urged to meet at zonal level with the aspirants to reduce the number of people contesting the election by consensus. Badaru, who dismissed the existence of a ‘Unity List’ of endorsed aspirants, however, added that the party constitution allowed consensus. The NCC chairman, who said the outcome of zonal meetings on the consensus arrangements was being expected, voiced optimism that the APC would come out stronger out of the convention with the pledged given by all the governors to make it successful and rancour-free. Umaru Tanko Al-Makura, the governor of Nasarawa State, said the party governors had been talking with one another to ensure a consensus so that the election would be rancour-free. Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State said the APC had ways of sorting out its matters when asked to speak on the agreement reached on ‘Unity List’. Amosun, who backed the consensus arrangement, said the party would not stop any of the aspirants from running at the convention. The secretary to the National Convention planning committee, Senator Victor Ndoma-Egba, said out of the 42 positions in contention, one of the aspirants on Wednesday, dropped off leaving the race to 41. Oshiomhole ‘coronation’ today After the withdrawal all the national chairmanship aspirants, including former governor of Cross River State, Chief Clement Ebri, former governor of Edo State, Prof. Oserheimen Osunbor, and Chief Ibrahim Emokpaire from the race, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, has been left as the sole aspirant for the contest today. Oshiomhole is just waiting to be crowned as the new king of the ruling party after the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari, and other key people. He expects either vote by affirmation, or through voice vote. Fierce tussles For the office of the deputy national chairman of the party for the Northern region, Alhaji Farouk Adamu Aliyu from Jigawa State is out to challenge Senator Lawali Shuaibu   who currently occupies the seat. For the office of the deputy national chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo is poised to take over from Engr. Segun Oni who recently contested the APC governorship primary election in Ekiti State. Alhaji Mai Mala Buni who was also endorsed by President Buhari and some governors would also be challenged by Architect Waziri Bulama, Alhaji Kashim Imam, Barr. Mohammed Bello, and Abdulrahman Terab. Terab said that Buni could not pose any threat to his ambition since the delegates would determine the winner of the seat at the national convention. At least four people have indicated interest to challenge the National Organising Secretary of the party, Sen. Osita Izunaso. They include Barr. Emma Ibediro, Hon. Chidi Nwogu, Dr. C.C Osuala and Dr. Betty Nnamdi. The battle for the soul of the APC in the South East between Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State and other leaders from the zone would produce a fierce contest for the position of National Organising Secretary, National Vice Chairman, South East, and National Auditor. Yesterday, four state chairmen of the ruling APC from South East geo-political zone opposed the so-called ‘Unity List’ allegedly prepared by the party governors which contradicted the position of the zonal leaders. The state party chairmen that addressed journalists at the APC national secretariat in Abuja yesterday were Dr Tony Nwoye, Enugu; Donatus Nwankpa, Abia; Eze Nwachukwu Eze, Ebonyi; and Barr. Emeka Obasi, Anambra. APC chairman in Enugu, Dr Nwoye, while speaking, warned against the imposition of candidates on the zone by the stakeholders from other zones, saying that such development would cause disaffection and affect the re-election bid of President Muhammadu Buhari. He described any list produced at a meeting attended by one governor from the zone as a ‘Disunity List’, advising the National Convention Committee (NCC) to allow delegates to decide the winners. “You cannot disregard Jim Nwobodo, Orji Uzor Kalu, Ogbonaya Onu, Chris Ngige, Martin Elechi, Sullivan Chime, Andy Uba, Benjamin Uwajumogu, and state chairmen. These are great leaders. “If you produce a list that wants to affront to the needs, demands and opinions of these leaders, that means we will go back to 2015 when we were all unable to contribute to vote. These are people that their own idea with all these entrants, we are sure to win south east for President Buhari,” said Nwoye. The National Woman Leader, Hajiya Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu also from Kogi State, would be challenged by Hajiya Salamatu Baiwa and Hajiya Fatima Adams. However, Hajiya Baiwa is seen as contender to beat as she seems to have secured the support of Governor Yahaya Bello and party leaders in Kogi State. nPDP on focus over position of APC spokesman The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi from Kwara State, would be challenged by Malam Lanre Issa-Onilu, Kwara and Abubakar Sidiq Usman, Kogi State. Pundits say the emergence of the incumbent spokesman will signify the willingness to absorb members of the aggrieved nPDP since he is seen as a core loyalist of Senate President Bukola Saraki. Daily Trust on Saturday, however, learnt that he would face a serious challenge from Issa-Onilu believed to belong to the camp of the minister of information, Alhaji Lai Mohammed. All this, and more to come today, at the APC convention in Abuja.