Over  4000 households in insurgency affected areas of Adamawa, Borno and Yobe  States are to benefit from Victims Support Fund (VSF) agricultural  inputs support this farming season.

In  a statement by the spokesperson of VSF Rotkatmwa Gofwen on Friday, the  Chairman of the fund, Gen. T.Y Danjuma flagged off the Rain-Fed Farming  Intervention programme in Gulak the headquarters of Madagali Local  Government Area of Adamawa on Thursday.

Represented  by Alhaji Alkasim Abdulkadir, a board member of the fund, Danjuma said  the measure was to ensure that those affected by insurgency bounced back  to their normal lives.

She  quoted him as saying: "This intervention aims to administer appropriate  support to victims of insurgency and facilitate the restoration of  livelihood through economic empowerment of households in north east.

According  to her, the VSF Agro-based intervention provided agricultural inputs  which included: Improved varieties of seeds, fertilizers, pesticides and  sprayer. 

Gofwen  said the rain-fed farming programme will improve household nutrition  and also engender financial independence for victims who have returned  to their communities.

"A total of 4,000 households will receive agricultural inputs across the three most affected states of Borno, Adamawa and Yobe."

Also  speaking, the Executive Director of the fund, Prof. Sunday Ochoche, who  said the beneficiaries included widows, urged them not to sell the  inputs provided them.

Ochoche  noted that the beneficiaries were formed into groups of 20 each to be  properly monitored and supported on how to properly utilize the inputs  for maximum benefit.

In  his remarks, the Adamawa State Coordinator of Fadama 111, Alhaji  Mohammad Kabiru said the beneficiaries would be registered for necessary  guidance on how to use the inputs and sustain support.

The  chairman of Madagali local government, Alhaji Yusuf Mohammed, who  lauded VSF for its support to the people said the council had  constituted a monitoring team involving security agents to arrest and  prosecute anyone found selling the inputs.