About 50 federal agencies are being run by acting chief executive officers years after their substantive heads either retired or were sacked, thereby slowing the statutory activities of most of them, Daily Trust investigations have shown. This is coming eight months after President Muhammadu Buhari announced that he will appoint more ministers into his cabinet and also make board appointments. On October 31 last year, Buhari had during the National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the All Progressives Congress (APC) disclosed his intention to expand the ministerial appointments from 36 to an undisclosed number. He said he would also make more boards appointments. At least 12 of these agencies without substantive heads are under the education ministry, 11 in agriculture, three in works, power and housing, two in information and culture, while the remaining are under the Presidency and Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF). Most of these agencies are critical actors in the finance sectors, anti-corruption, governance, infrastructural development, ease of doing business, agriculture, science, and technology, among others. Aside from the absence of the CEOs, most of the boards of these agencies have not been reconstituted, a development which insiders say has serious implication for operational efficiency. These boards are responsible for setting out broad economic, financial, operational administrative guidelines and targets for their various agencies. They are also concerned with policy issues, monitoring of institutional projects, programmes and ensuring that the parastatals’ mandates are realized. Despite Buhari’s anti-graft crusade, the two federal anti-corruption agencies -  Independent Corrupt Practices and other related offences Commission (ICPC) and the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), have been led by acting chief executives for more than two years. The Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), which is the pioneer federal anti-corruption agency saddled with the responsibility of checking corrupt practices in the Nigerian public service has been without a substantive head. In the finance sector, the National Pension Commission (PenCom), and Fiscal Responsibility Commission (FRC) are also run by acting heads after their chief executives were removed. PenCom is the federal agency saddled with the task of regulating, supervising, and ensuring the effective administration of pension matters in Nigeria. The FRC is an agency set up by law to provide for prudent management of the nation’s resources, ensure the long-term macroeconomic stability of the national economy, secure greater accountability and transparency in fiscal operations within the medium-term fiscal policy framework. A fortnight ago, Buhari approved the renewal of the tenure of six CEOs of federal agencies, the appointment of two new others, and one Senior Special Assistant. The six appointments that were renewed for the second and final tenure include Dr Boboye Olayemi Oyeyemi, Corps Marshal/CEO, Federal Road Safety Corps; Dr Jafaru Alunua Momoh, Chief Medical Director of National Hospital Abuja; Dr Nwadinigwe Uwatoronye, Medical Director, National Orthopedic Hospital, Enugu State; Prof. Eli Jidere Bala, Director General of Energy Commission of Nigeria; Dr Mohammed Jibrin, Director General of the National Board for Technology Incubation (NBTI); and Prof. Mohammed Haruna, Executive Chairman of the National Agency for Science and Engineering Infrastructure (NASENI). The new appointments are Dr Ali Adamu, Provost, Federal College of Education (Technical) in Gombe State; Dr Yaya Baba Adamu, Medical Director, Federal Medical Centre in Keffi, Nasarrawa State; and Ambassador Yahaya Lawal as Senior Special Assistant to the President on Foreign Affairs and International Relations. For some of the agencies, their substantive heads were nominated by President Muhammadu Buhari and transmitted to the Senate for confirmation. But the cold war between the Senate led by Bukola Saraki and the Presidency is responsible for the delay in confirmation of the Buhari’s appointees. Some of the appointees whose nominations stalled in the Senate include those of EFCC, PenCom, CBB, ICPC, National Lottery Regulatory Commission (NLRC), and Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA). Other agencies without substantive heads despite their significant roles in the Buhari administration’s trumpeted determination of reforming the public sector is the Bureau for Public Service Reforms (BFSR). Despite the federal government’s efforts of entrenching ‘ease of doing business’ in the country, the agency charged with the responsibility of regulating the formation and management of companies in Nigeria, Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC) has been without a substantive head which recently generated an industrial crisis in the agency. The Infrastructure Concession Regulatory Commission (ICRC), a body responsible for the development and implementation of Public Private Partnership (PPP) framework for the provision of infrastructure service in the country is led by an acting CEO. Despite the burgeoning challenges of roads infrastructure across the country, the Federal Roads Maintenance Agency (FERMA), a federal agency concerned with road construction, improvement and connectivity between the states of Nigeria, is also without a substantive CEO. The National Institute for Policy and Strategic Studies (NIPSS), which is the nation’s foremost centre for the development of top-class technocrats that will anchor the implementation of innovative and dynamic policy initiatives and strategies critical for national development, has been without a substantive CEO since Professor Tijjani Bande’s tenure ended as he was only appointed nearly a year after he left NIPSS as Nigeria’s envoy to the United Nations. In the power sector, the National Power Training Institute of Nigeria (NAPTIN) established to provide training for power sector personnel and coordinate training activities in the sector, is also run by an acting CEO. The National Examination Council of Nigeria (NECO), an indigenous examination body that conducts the Senior Secondary Certificate Examination and the General Certificate in Education, has been without a CEO. The Federal Character Commission (FCC), an executive body established to implement and enforce the federal character principle of fairness and equity in the distribution of public posts and socio-economic infrastructures among the various federating units of Nigeria, is also a run by an acting chairman for over two years. The Revenue Mobilisation and Fiscal Allocation Commission (RMAFC) which is constitutionally empowered to monitor the accruals into and disbursement of revenue from the Federation Account; review from time to time, the revenue allocation formulae and principles in operation to ensure conformity with changing realities, among others, has an acting CEO even though the former one Mr Elias Mbam, was named again but his matter is hanging.