A 35-year-old Togolese man, Omoakin Friday Kojo, has been arrested for allegedly using a fake Lagos State Environmental Sanitation Corps (LAGESC) identity card to extort money from unsuspecting members of the public at Oshodi. Kojo was arrested on Friday by operatives of the Lagos State Task Force. The police said that the Togolese was sighted by the eagle eyes of the task force men around Ikeja railway line for impersonation and extortion. Chairman of the Lagos State Task Force, Superintendent of Police, Olayinka Egbeyemi who confirmed the arrest, said that the suspect was arrested by the enforcement team of the agency after an official complaint of his illegal activities. Egbeyemi said the suspect popularly called ‘FRYO’ was nabbed around Ikeja railway line for perpetrating all sorts of illicit acts, ranging from impersonation, defamation of character and extortion in the name of LAGESC. He noted that the suspect and his cohorts now at large, are accused of parading themselves as officers of LAGESC with fake identity cards. He said the suspect and his team would arrest pedestrians found to have crossed the express roads without using the pedestrian bridges. Egbeyemi commended Governor Akinwunmi Ambode for the on-going developmental projects across the state, particularly, the construction of additional modernized pedestrian bridges and lay-bys for commuters along major highways to keep free flow of traffic. “The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal has directed that the suspect be charged to court”, he said The agency enjoined members of the public to stop crossing highways and make use of pedestrian bridges for safety of their lives. The suspect who had admitted using fake state government identity card to extort money from pedestrians arrested for not using pedestrian bridge, said that he has been in the business since six years He confessed further that they were four as a group and that their routine operations cut across Ikeja, Berger, Oshodi, Ojota, Ojodu and Mile 2. Kojo said he rakes in between N8,000 and N10,000 per day from arrested pedestrians who would preferred not to be prosecuted in court.