Queen Esther Adoo Gum, 26, holds the Finest Girl in Nigeria position. Born into a family of eight children and the youngest, Esther had it all until she lost her dad the difficulty sets in. Esther, a graduate of Mass Communication from Benue State University (BSU) ventured into the pageantry world and today, she is empowering others through her Adoo Haddassah Care Foundation. She spoke about this and more in this interview.  How did you find yourself in pageantry? I never really had a thing for pageantry initially. But while I was in the university during our traditional week, I wore my traditional attire and on getting to school, people commended it and advised I try to be the Kumase of CTS, BSU which is the Tiv Beauty Queen on campus. And then, it was just two days to the event. That was in 2015. I went into the contest and I won. From there, I started developing passion for pageantry; I also contested for the national Kumase in 2016 and I won that too. Then. I contested for the Finest Girl in Nigeria in 2017 and won too. When I won the national Kumase, I looked and discovered that most of our girls don’t go out for fear of failure. So, I said I was going to give it a try. When I saw the advert regarding the Finest Girl in Nigeria, it was quite huge but I determined to try. I went to Abuja. The contest took place at Sheraton Hotel. And I emerged winner among 36 contestants. What has been your experience as a beauty queen? It’s really tough, it’s sweet, it’s sour. You know, people have this very awful impression about pageantry and beauty queens. Actually, some girls go into pageantry because they want access and they use that access to misconduct themselves. But all the while, I’ve been trying to erase that impression that people have revived the image of pageantry in Africa and so far, I believe that I’ve been able to do that. Being a beauty queen is quite challenging because sometimes you go out to seek for sponsorship and people try to take advantage of you. But I always tell my fellow queens that that is not an excuse. People would criticise you but if you know what you want and what you are going after, then, I don’t think that would be a challenge. What have been your difficult moments in life? Before I became a beauty queen, I had this challenge of people trying to take advantage of me. My dad was a wealthy man but before I got into the university, I lost him. And so, in the course of trying to solicit for funds through his close friends, they tried that. So, I said to myself, it’s not a do or die thing. I had to look for other ways to pay up my bills. What then are your life lessons? Life has taught me to be patient. Life has taught me to be persistent. Life has taught me to be faithful and have hope because life is full of challenges that you can’t avoid. If you were not a beauty queen, what would you have been? When I went into pageantry, it was like I discovered myself, I discovered my passion, I discovered what I loved most which is helping the less privileged. Even before I became a beauty queen, I used to do some of those things to the less privileged. Sometimes when I have little food, I share with friends. Sometimes, when I had excess money even though I wasn’t getting much, I used to share with some who didn’t have much to sponsor themselves in school. So, helping the less privileged has been my passion all along. At 26, I have been able to impact lives. I know that my youth has not been a waste. I have sponsored people in school, given scholarships, registered JAMB and WAEC for the less privileged. I’m focused on the girlchild because they are vulnerable. I’ve been able to support lots of people. What are aspirations? I want to be a minister of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. I love politics. I wish to be successful; I want to impact lives. I want to leave a legacy and be remembered for something, I want to change negative impression about pageantry and I want to be supportive to humanity. What would you tell a younger you? I would tell a younger me to believe in yourself. Don’t let anyone tell you that you are not good enough. You can be anything you want to be; just believe.