The Chief of Army Staff, Lt-Gen. Tukur Yusuf Burutai, has assured that the Nigerian Army was committed to upholding the rights of the civilian in the country. He gave the assurance on Tuesday in Abuja at a one–day Civil-Military Media Awareness Programme organised by the CLEEN Foundation and National Endowment for Democracy (NED) targeted at transport operators, motorists and others. Buratai, represented by the Army Human Rights Desk Officer, Major Naanzem Henrietta Longpoe, said the army had measures in place to ensure that the rights of civilians were protected, including the opening of a free toll line, 193, and establishment of the Nigerian Army Human Rights Desk among others. “The office is opened to members of the public whose rights have been infringed upon. They can always walk into our office and lodge their complaints. We have some designated toll free call centre, and Public Complaints Rapid Response Unit. “Every month, we also go to Army formations and schools to sensitize them on the need to respect the rights of the civilians. The army, during its first quarter staff conference, equally launched some books on respect for human rights during military operations. So, the Army is doing its best to ensure that the rights of the civilians are respected,” Buratai said. The Executive Director, CLEEN Foundation, Dr Benson Olugbuo, represented by the Programme Manager, of the foundation, Ruth Olofin, stressed the need for cordial relation between civilians and the military in the country. He said positive relationship between the military and the civilian was key in addressing security challenges facing the country and that while it was important for the military to respect the rights of civilians, it was also necessary for the civilians to respect the rights of the military. “Like the civilians, the soldiers also have human rights to be respected. It is a two-way thing. As civilian is saying respect our human rights, the soldiers are also saying respect our human rights. So, our message is simple, positive civil relationship is key to nation-building. Respect for fundamental human rights is important for civil relationship in Nigeria. “We have a project called Fostering Military-Civil relations in Nigeria. This project has been on since 2015. The essence is how we bridge the gap in terms of relationship communication between the civilians and the military,” Olugbuo said. On their parts, the duo of Mrs Damian-Igwe Stella Marris of the National Orientation Agency (NOA) and Elizabeth Benedict of the FCT Sector Command, Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), said the cordial relationship between security agencies and civilians is important to nation building since everyone is working for the interests of the country.