Daily Trust: How is the mission faring since your assumption of office? Ambassador Yusuf Maitama Tuggar: In the last few years, there has been renewed investment interest in Nigeria because if you look at Germany, the bedrock of its economy is what they refer to as the medium-size, family-owned companies and a lot of them are looking to invest in Nigeria. They are very keen on investing in Africa and you cannot talk about Africa without talking about Nigeria because Nigeria is the heart of Africa. In the power sector, we already have a Nigerian-German energy partnership. There are a lot of German companies that are into renewable energy, solar energy in particular and they are interested in investing in Nigeria. We have got some firms that used to be in Nigeria before and are now showing keen interest in returning to Nigeria. There is interest by German car manufacturers to come to Nigeria to set up assembly plants because they do it aggressively in Africa and they have not yet come to Nigeria. We are actually in talks with some of them. On the soft side - culture and music industry, we have plans to visit Nigeria with the CEO of Sony Europe who is a German and he is interested in signing up Nigerian artistes, he is very keen on Nigerian music and the Nigerian music industry. We are also working assiduously on Lagos-Frankfurt training, a twin city concept. Talks have gone quite far. DT: What’s the ‘twin city’ project all about? Amb. Tuggar: The twin city is a way of leveraging on the advantages of the two cities of Lagos and Frankfurt being business and financial hubs to try to add value and give each other the right of first refusal when it comes to business opportunities as well as find ways of supporting each other, not just in investment and financial sectors but also town planning. You will be surprised to find that Germany has a lot to learn from Lagos and Nigeria as a whole. There are certain areas, certain neighbourhoods where there was no internet and today you have fiber optic cables being laid, whereas they have had telephony longer. So you will find in certain parts in Germany they are still relying on vectoring technology to improve copper wires. If you look at our mobile banking platform, it is one of the most advanced and sophisticated in the world. We are way ahead of some other countries in the world, Germany included when it comes to that; so they have something also to learn from us. DT: The German government was among the main drivers of the Oslo Conference on Northeast Nigeria. What has been the achievement of the conference? Amb. Tuggar: We are getting support from German aid agency GIZ in terms of research, support for rehabilitation of towns, schools and even training of the personnel that carry out the work. Germany is a country, for instance, that has a lot of experience in terms of resettlement, reunification because of the experiences they had-first world war, second world war and the reunification of East and West Germany. And beyond Northeast Nigeria, we are also looking at other areas. For instance, we have gone far in talks with German groups that are interested in infrastructure. Some of it will hopefully attract vocational training because they are well advanced in this aspect. They have what they refer to as the dual system of education. You are going to school and at the same time practicing your craft. So by the time you finish school you are absorbed into the manufacturing sector, into the creative sector and all of that. So, the dual system is something that we can benefit from. The more benefit we get from vocational trainings and skills acquisition, the fewer young Nigerians migrate to Europe in search of better opportunities. DT: What’s your assessment of Nigerians in Germany? Ambassador Tuggar: The Nigerian community in Germany is a bourgeoning community because you have a lot of successful Nigerians there, professionals that have excelled in their various fields. One of the foremost curators of arts in Germany is a Nigerian. One of the most prominent artists in Germany, Emeka, is also a Nigerian, born and bred in Nigeria. But you wouldn’t hear about them. We have lawyers, doctors and engineers, some lecturing in some of their prominent universities. So, these are the sort of Nigerians that we need to hear more about but instead, news reports always focus on irregular Nigerian migrants and their plight. You don’t get to hear about the success stories of Nigerians abroad. I am not denying that we have irregular immigrants but even there, you will find out that some of them make it to that country but later realized that they don’t want to be there. We have a lot of walk-ins in the embassy, people coming in and saying they are tired want to go home, asking for emergency travel certificate and we do it immediately and they go back. But we need to exercise caution because some numbers are being branded about the population of irregular Nigerian immigrants in Germany but you will find out that a lot of the people that are purported to be Nigerians are not. I have participated in interviews for asylum seekers and you will find out that a lot of them are from other African countries. What the world needs to realise also is that we, Nigerians, are actually shock absorbers, we take in a lot of migrants from other African countries. Some of them actually come to Nigeria seeking greener pasture and later use this place as a jump-off point to go to Europe. So it is not enough if you arrest someone on charges of being an irregular migrant or an illegal alien and you look at his phone and you see Nigerian phone numbers to just assume that he is a Nigerian. That is not the case. DT: Recently, the German government proposed a new system to repatriate about 30,000 irregular Nigerian immigrants in that country. What is your take on this? Amb. Tuggar: To begin with, we dispute that figure (30,000). That is not the case. They aren’t 30,000 Nigerians asylum seekers in Germany. like I said, I have participated in interviews and these are joint interviews between Nigeria (as represented by the Nigerian embassy) and the German authorities, including the German federal police. In most of the interviews, you have non-Nigerians and they also admitted that they are not Nigerians. Also, a lot of those that we do not issue emergency travel certificates are people that either have medical conditions that make them unfit to travel or they have family ties. They are married and even have children with German citizens. Some are undergoing educational courses or a vocational training. If you were to issue an emergency travel certificate to such an individual and have him deported from Germany, you will be contravening German laws, not our laws. They have certain laws that preclude the deportation or expulsion of individuals that are undergoing treatment or if you have a particular ailment and it is established that if you are deported to a particular country you will not be able to get the same sort of treatment that you are receiving over there. And above that, you have got the European Union convention on human rights that stops you from doing any of that. DT: What is the population of Nigerians in Germany? Amb. Tuggar: It is hard to say because a lot of individuals don’t have travel documents, they don’t have passports. So, it is very difficult to ascertain. One of the reforms I implemented after taking over as ambassador in the embassy was to collate the number of Nigerians in Germany. We started collating data of Nigerians that are resident there legally, those that have identified to be Nigerians illegally based on the interviews and those that are in prison. The exercise is still on-going, we have not concluded it yet. We have a special unit that is addressing this particular problem.