Following the shocking political pronouncement by the incumbent deputy governor of Kano State, Professor Hafiz Abubakar, that he would not join ticket with his principal, Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje in the 2019 general elections, the latter has commenced search for a new running mate, Daily Trust on Sunday learnt. In a leaked audio clip that went viral on the social media in December last year, Professor Abubakar said he would rather return to Bayero University, Kano, his former place of work and continue with his teaching career after the expiration of their tenure on May 29, 2019. The deputy governor recalled that he was picked by Senator Kwankwaso as Ganduje’s running mate in 2015. According to him, during the campaign, his picture was put side by side with Ganduje, President Muhammadu Buhari and Dr Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso, but it was later replaced with that of someone else, even at his birthplace. “What have I done to warrant all these? I did not bring myself here. I was engrossed in my academic activities when I was picked as the deputy governorship candidate. The God that chose me is not sleeping. He knows the best. I pray to him to choose the best for me. “Those who want to continue should go on, but my prayer is to go back to Bayero University. I will not be part of a system where the leadership of my party, the All Progressives Congress (APC), would be formed at my Mandawari ward, my birthplace and my blood brother was removed without anyone consulting me,” he stated in the clip. Findings by Daily Trust on Sunday revealed that the search for the replacement of Professor Abubakar has been intensified. As a result, five contenders have emerged from the Kano central zone and one from Kano south. Those from the Kano central zone are the Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba; Commissioner for Agriculture, Alhaji Nasiru Yusuf Gawuna; Speaker of the Kano State House of Assembly, Alhaji Abdullahi Yusuf Ata; Kano State chairman of the APC, Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, and a member of the House of Representatives (Kumbotso federal constituency), Alhaji Munir Babba Dan Agundi, while Alhaji Alhassan Ado Doguwa, a member the House of Representatives (Tudunwada/Doguwa federal constituency) emerged from Kano south. Although there was no official statement from the government as to who would be the governor’s running mate in 2019, one of our sources who is close to the state government said that among the six contenders, Muhammad Garba had a high chance of becoming the next deputy governor of the state. According to the source, Garba has a very long and cordial relationship with the governor, and that could pave way for him. Next to Garba is Alhaji Abdullahi Abbas, the current chairman of the APC in the state. Abbas, according to the source, also has every chance of becoming Ganduje’s running mate in 2019, at least for his family identity and good relationship with the governor. Another strong factor considered as a plus to Abbas is the fact that he is from the same local government area with the incumbent deputy governor. The APC chairman, political pundits predicted, may enjoy the support of many prominent people from his locality, who may wish to see that Gwale retains the position of deputy governor beyond 2019. Rep Munir Babba Dan Agundi is another potential running mate with a renowned family identity. Apart from his family identity, Dan Agundi is also enjoying the support of his colleagues at the lower chamber of the National Assembly, according to a source close to him. “The current president of the African Development Bank, Mr Akinwumi  Adesina is supporting Dan Agundi. The man is rigorously fighting for him. His younger brother, Baffa Babba Dan Agundi, who is the chief whip of the Kano State House Assembly, is also supporting his candidature,” the source said. The Speaker, Kano State House of Assembly, Alhaji Abdullahi Yusuf Ata, is also expected to enjoy the support of the governor, considering his relationship with him. It was alleged that Ganduje is considering Ata to be his running mate in 2019 so that he would put to a halt, the lingering leadership crisis in the House. Apart from his political relationship with Gnaduje, the commissioner for agriculture is also enjoying the support of some elder statesmen in the state. Like Rep Dan Agundi, Rep Alhassan Ado Doguwa, the chief whip of the House of Representatives, is also enjoying the support of some members of the lower chamber, according to a reliable source within the Kano State Government. The source, who preferred to be anonymous, said although Doguwa’s chance to become Ganduje’s running mate in 2019 was very low, in the event that the governor decides to pick a running mate outside Kano central, Doguwa would likely be the one, courtesy of his unflinching loyalty to the governor and President Buhari. Speaking to Daily Trust on Sunday on this issue, the chief whip of the Kano State House of Assembly said, “As a member of the House of Representatives, I think my elder brother is equal to the task. With his national and international connections, I am sure Rep Dan Agundi has a lot to offer to this state as deputy governor. He will perform beyond expectation because the incumbent governor will give him free hand to discharge his duties. “From my own angle, Rep Dan Agundi has the support of some members in the State House of Assembly, especially the loyalists of the former speaker, Alhaji Kabiru Alhassan Rurum. We will continue to support his candidature until a running mate emerges.” On his part, a chieftain of the APC and former commissioner for environment in Kano State, Alhaji Ibrahim Dan Azumi Gwarzo, said the governor was yet to table the issue of his running mate before the elders of the party. He, however, advised the governor to make a good choice before it is too late. Gwarzo said, “The search for a running mate is at the discretion of the governor. The constitution allows him freedom to pick a running mate of his choice. Yes, I heard the incumbent deputy governor’s pronouncement in December 2017, that he will not contest alongside Ganduje. Prof Abubakar is entitled to his personal opinion and decision. But I am advising him to rethink because he still has time to make a final decision. This is somebody that is occupying two powerful positions in government: deputy governor and commissioner for education, a very big ministry, yet he is claiming that he is redundant. “I am advising the governor to choose a competent hand to replace the incumbent deputy governor if in the end the latter decides to go on his own. “To be honest with you, the issue of choosing a running mate is not something that will be allowed to go to the pages of newspapers because it is a personal volition of the governor.” Also commenting on the issue, a former commissioner for land and survey during the Kwankwaso administration, Alhaji Ado Kibiya, said that to the best of his knowledge, the issue of Ganduje’s running mate for the 2019 contest was not brought to the knowledge of many APC elders. “This is something that requires careful selection and wider consultation before someone can make a final decision. So the governor should be given enough time to think wisely and make the necessary consultations,” Kibiya said.