The police have arrested a three-member cult gang terrorizing residents of Ajangbadi in Ojo area of Lagos. Police said that the three suspected cultists were arrested by policemen from Ilemba, Hausa Division. The suspects, Ibeji Chukwuemeka, 21, Caleb Isaac, 21, and Paul Ehimika, 23, were arrested for allegedly taking turns to rape a 15-year-old girl. The suspects allegedly cornered their victim while on her way home from school, dragged her into an uncompleted building in the area where she was allegedly raped. The three denied belonging to any secret cult but admitted raping the teenage girl. In their confessional statement to the police, the suspects said they decided to rape the girl because “she was too hard to get”. Ibeji said: “We know the girl because she lives in our area. I have been making passes at her for quite some time now but she pretended as if she didn’t get the signal. The annoying aspect of it was that we see her in company of other boys from other area. So, one day I discussed my frustration with my friends who advised me on what to do. “All the tricks they gave me did not succeed. It was one Saturday while strolling around the area that the idea of raping her came me. We agreed that the only way we can humiliate her is to take turns in raping her. Having agreed on this, we went out to scout for a possible place where we can carry out our task,” he said. “On that fateful day around 4.30pm, we sighted her coming. We decided to follow her and, as luck would have it, she headed towards the lonely spot where the uncompleted house is located. We then cornered her and forced her into the building. We tied Paul’s handkerchief around her face. We did it twice before we allowed her to go.” On how they were arrested, Ibeji said it was the girl’s parents who called in the police. “I think she must have narrated her ordeal to her parents. I was at home when the police arrested me,” he added. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, who paraded the suspects before journalists in Lagos, said, contrary to the claims that they raped the victim in an uncompleted building, the act took place in their room at number 52, Jagua Street, Itakete Imude in Ajangbadi area of the state. Edgal said during the execution of a search warrant in their homes, one cutlass and red scarf with which they blindfolded the girl were found. The suspects, the police commissioner, said will be charged to court at the conclusion of investigation.