The Department of State Services (DSS) has released Senator Enyinnaya Abaribe after five days in detention. A statement by his spokesman, Uche Awom, said Abaribe was released to his lawyer, Chukwuma Machukwu-Ume (SAN) at 6.32pm on Tuesday on administrative bail. "Speaking at the premises of the DSS facility in Abuja the lawyer thanked Nigerians for standing up against the wrongs done to Nigerian democracy with the arrest of Senator Abaribe. "The collective calls and demand for his release have shown the great spirit of Nigerians for justice," the statement said. A Federal High Court in Abuja had earlier yesterday declined an application by Senator Abaribe to be released by the DSS. Justice Binta Nyako turned down an oral application by counsel to Abaribe, Machukwu-Ume (SAN) seeking to issue an order for his client's release, on the grounds that the matter was not properly brought before the court. The Judge however directed that Abaribe be granted access to his lawyers, adding that holding him incommunicado would amount to breach of his fundamental right to have a counsel of his choice as guaranteed by the Constitution. The Judge advised the lawyer to take appropriate legal steps to ensure his client's release. Abaribe is one of the three sureties for Nnamdi Kanu, who was granted bail in April, 2017 in the sum of N100m bail bonds each. The others are: Jewish priest, Immanuel Shalom, and an Abuja-based accountant,Tochukwu Uchendu. Ababribe was arrested by operatives of the DSS on what the lawyer,  said were allegations of gun running and sponsoring the  IPOB. Kanu has not been seen following a military operation near his residence in Afara-Ukwu, Umuahia, Abia State in September, 2017. Defence lawyers, Machukwu-Ume, Ifeanyi Ejiofor, Aloy Ejimakor, I. F. Chude had filed an application challenging the jurisdiction of the court to hear the earlier order made in March for the sureties to show cause why they would not forfeit the bail bonds or be committed to prison for failing to produce Kanu. The case has been adjourned to November 14 for hearing.