Their activities appear to be more pronounced by the day. Some are political thugs, others are simply criminal elements that go with the tide. How much have their activities spread across the country?  As electioneering shifts gears toward 2019, political thugs and criminal gangs appear to be having a field day across the nation. A typical example of how daring they get is the Ondo State affair where several persons, including a lawmaker and journalists, were injured at the venue of the state Congress of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Akure, when thugs in about eight vehicles accessed the venue. An instance in May was when political thugs took over the venue of an occasion to receive Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) decamping members to the APC in Birnin-Kudu, Birnin-Kudu Local Government Area (LGA). Another was when one person reportedly died when suspected thugs vandalised APC secretariat in Rivers State. The list continues. Kalare calamity Such criminals sometimes go by popular names, such as the ‘Kalare’ in Gombe State and Sara-Suka in parts of Plateau, Kaduna, and Bauchi states. But at other times, they are nameless thugs with a penchant for mayhem and thirst for money. In Gombe, the dreadful activities of the Kalare gangs have for a long time spelt nightmare for many, especially residents of Gombe metropolis. The groups evolved from a youth wing of a political party during campaigns into armed hired thugs in the guise of providing security. When Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo was elected in 2011, he outlawed the Kalare groups, ordered the police to arrest any person caught with a weapon and prosecute them as armed robbers. In a more creative move, the government also engaged some of them as traffic, road and environmental marshals through a re-orientation programme designed specifically for repentant ones. However, as politicking for the 2019 elections gathers momentum, the groups have started to emerge again after about seven years of silence, and their activities have included the destruction of campaign posters and billboards of opposition camps. The state Police Command Public Relations Officer, DSP Obed Mary Malum, said the police has intensified surveillance and is on alert to arrest anybody found wanting. Kaduna’s ‘hackers’ The Yan Sara-Suka on the other hand are a notorious gang terrorizing Kaduna communities, particularly Tudun-Wada, Badarawa, Ungwar Shanu, Abakpa and Malali, among others. Sara-Suka, translated from Hausa, means ‘hack and stab’. Their activities have of late become a serious cause for concern among residents of Kaduna State, particularly as the election year approaches. The Sara-Suka consume all sorts of drugs and carry weapons such as knives, cutlasses, axes and sticks. They are known for creating upheavals, and kill, injure, and rob at will. When they clash with other gangs, they wreak havoc on helpless communities. In the process, they break into shops and cart away valuables. Fear therefore mounts as the gang becomes tools in the hands of politicians, and residents have urged the state government to tackle them before they spiral out of control. Last week, no fewer than 50 members of the gang were arrested in Kaduna following Governor Nasir El-Rufai’s directive to security agencies. The suspects were arrested in different locations over a clash between gangs of Abakpa and Ungwar Shanu, and will be arraigned before a magistrate court. Kaduna’s police spokesman, ASP Mukhtar Aliyu, said Commissioner of Police, Austin Iwar, has directed that the parents of youths involved in the incident, community leaders, and other stakeholders be invited so as to bring an end to their activities. “During the last incident at Badarawa, we had to arrest the parents before we were able to get their wards, and they were made to sign an undertaking that they will do everything to bring an end to activities of the gangs in the state.” Benue’s bloodthirsty thugs The activities of a criminal gang allegedly led by wanted kingpin, Terwase Akwaza popularly referred to as Gana has continued to threaten the Benue/Taraba border communities. Gana is presently being hunted by a combined team of security agencies code named ‘Operation Whirl Stroke’ and is suspected to be the killer of Governor Samuel Ortom’s aide, Denen Igbana, in May 2016 and several others. He is also said to be responsible for unrest across three Benue local government areas of Kastina-Ala, Logo and Ukum respectively, as well as Wukari, a border town close to Benue’s Zaki Biam in Taraba State. Gana’s notorious gang was also linked to a Monday attack on famous Zaki-Biam town yam market in Ukum in March, 2017 during which over 50 people were allegedly shot dead. They are also blamed for the isolated killing of several policemen within the same area. Nasarawa’s nastiness Criminal gangs pose a major security challenge in the Keffi, Karu to Abuja axis, with few in other parts of Nasarawa State. Although their activities are not necessarily political, it has been interpreted as steps to achieve political relevance. The gangs have killed many policemen and civilians, and kidnapped for ransom. They have also committed armed robbery on major roads in the state and appear to have made the Keffi to Abuja axis a sanctuary for their attacks. Just two weeks ago, some gunmen killed three policemen in Mararaba Udege. Also, in a daylight operation, a gang stormed a filling station in Keffi, killed the manager, injured some people and dashed away. Last December two policemen were killed at a notorious robbery spot along Akwanga-Keffi road, while in March 2017 a criminal syndicate gained control over a territory in Mararaba Udege in Nasarawa LGA. It took a joint military and police operation to dislodge them. Political thugs in Lafia, capital of Nasarawa State are known to harass, molest, intimidate and in some cases, assault opponents of a politician they are supporting. However, they are not known to carry firearms. A typical example is when a group of thugs in Agwatashi pelted the convoy of the state governor, Tanko Almakura, when he visited the Internally Displaced Persons last April to condole with them over the recent clashes between farmers and herders. Kogi’s political thugs Kogi State has recorded more violent activities of political thugs in recent past. One of such incidents was the invasion of the chambers of the Kogi State House Assembly in Lokoja by suspected thugs who unleashed mayhem on lawmakers and forced the assembly to end its proceedings abruptly. On March 3, 2018, suspected political thugs attacked Senator Ahmed Ogembe (Kogi Central, PDP) at Okene LGA of Kogi State and other PDP stalwarts/supporters in the area while the senator was carrying out an empowerment programme for some of his constituents, mostly women. In the same vein, some suspected political thugs had attacked Senator Dino Melaye (Kogi West) during his visit to Kabba area of the state on the occasion of the Kabba Day celebration. Another happened during the recent verification exercise for his recall. Some thugs attacked INEC officials at Mapo-Muro LGA of Kogi State and carted away some of the materials being used for the exercise. Bauchi’s catch-and-release In the last few months, there has been a resurgence in the activities of Sara-Suka in Bauchi State, particularly in the metropolis, possibly connected with the intensification of political activities in the state, as politicians from different political parties make their intentions known against the 2019 general elections. There are many instances of clashes and attacks by Sara-Suka gangs in Bauchi metropolis with some reported fatalities. The most recent occurred about two months ago when a group of political praise-singers were attacked and injured. The attackers were arrested by the police, taken to court, but later released. According to police spokesperson, DSP Kamal Datti, on April 18, 2018 thugs armed with machetes and other dangerous weapons attacked an office in Reinsurance House building along Ahmadu Bello Way, and injured several people. Plateau’s rocky landscape In Plateau State, there is a thin line between political thugs and criminal gangs. Most often, the same criminals who are involved in violent activities such as the Sara-Suka and secret cult groups, are often the ones enlisted by politicians to cause havoc during campaigns and other political activities. Presently, deadly gangs like the Sara-Suka and other groups are becoming bolder around Jos North. Their activities pose security challenges mostly within the city. There is also the fear that they are being conscripted by some politicians, so much that the state government in February this year postponed the local government elections over security concerns. Plateau State spokesman, ASP Tyopev Terna, said the criminals, whether political thugs or not, have one thing in common: the abuse of drugs, and other substances. However, last Monday’s violent activities of Sara-Suka gangs, and the clash of two major cult groups in May within Jos North, has brought about a clampdown on the gangs. With the assistance of an effort, the Vigilante Group of Nigeria, communities are now cooperating with the police to ensure a total stop to their activities. Ekiti’s skittish reality Ekiti State has had its own share of deadly thuggery across all the 16 council areas of the state. It is now more pronounced in political circles as the state prepares for the July 14 governorship election. Political thugs are now common faces at political gatherings. They are seen manning the gates of their sponsors, and even serving as special guards. They operate in groups, harass people at gatherings, extort money, intimidate political opponents and destroy campaign billboards. The APC in the state recently accused the PDP of using its thugs to destroy its gubernatorial candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi’s campaign billboards in parts of the state, an allegation the PDP promptly denied. Apart from political thuggery, another deadly crime in the state is kidnapping. The troops of 32 Artillery Brigade recently rescued 10 kidnapped victims inside a forest at Erio-Efon Alaaye road. The victims were kidnapped on their way to Ado Ekiti from Efon Alaaye in two commercial buses at different points. The Assistant Director Army Public Relations, Ojo Adenegan, in a statement recently, pleaded with residents of the state to release information that could assist security agents to get rid of criminals in the state. Similarly, the Commissioner of Police, Alhaji Ahmed Bello, has warned political thugs to stay away from the state, saying the command would not tolerate any act capable of truncating peace. At different stakeholders’ meetings ahead of the July 14 governorship election, the CP said while the security agents were trying to ensure a peaceful poll, political parties should also key in to ensure the success of the election. He said the command was already combing flashpoints and criminal hideouts across the state to get rid of people with criminal tendencies. Kano’s uncanny thuggery problem In Kano State, activities of both political thugs and other criminals has increased. During the just-concluded Sallah festivities, the state witnessed clashes of local thugs popularly known as ‘Yan Daba’ across the city of Kano. Confirming this, police spokesman, SP Magaji Musa Mania said 10 suspected local thugs were currently in police net for their involvement in criminal activities. “Some of them have been accused of murder, while others are in for inflicting grave injuries on victims,” he said, adding that the command has fashioned out ways of tackling thuggery in the state ahead of the 2019 general elections. But how high will the deadly activities of dangerous thugs and criminal gangs spike as the 2019 polls draw closer? Will the authorities clamp down on their criminality decisively, or will desperate politicians continue their deals with the proverbial devil and all-too-real menace of thugs? These are the questions that remain dangerously unanswered.