Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal has asked policemen in the state to use their fire arms to defend themselves or property when they are under attack. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police made this statement against the backdrop of the burning of a police patrol van by commercial motorcycle operators in Ikorodu last week. Edgal while warning members of the public who may wish to take laws into their hands to destroy police or government property to desist from doing so as policemen will no longer fold their hands when their lives are under threat. Besides, the Police Commissioner has also urged religious leaders as well as leaders of various transport unions to advise their members and followers not to allow themselves to be used by any political thug as the 2019 general election draws near. He said that though some people may be planning to cause confusion during the electioneering campaign period, the command was ready and capable to handle any such groups. On the attack on policemen by commercial motorcycle riders, Edgal said that police officers have been advised to protect themselves in the event of any threat. The state Commissioner of Police gave the warning following the burning of a police patrol van by operators of commercial motorcycle in Ikorodu last Thursday over the death of a member. Edgal at a town hall meeting organised by Area C Command, Surulere, noted that no individual or group of persons is allowed to take laws into their own hands, no matter the circumstance. “The command notes with regret the unfortunate burning of a police patrol van stationed at a black spot in Ibeshe, Ipakodo area of Ikorodu, Lagos State by irate motorcyclists popularly called okada riders. The incident was occasioned by an encounter between policemen manning the black spot and an okada man plying the routes against the Lagos State  approved time  of 10:00p.m. “As he approached the police pin down point, the police team observed that he was carrying a passenger with a big bag  placed between him and the rider and so they flagged him down but instead of obeying the police hand signal, the okada man  increased his speed in order to evade police scrutiny.  Sadly,  he ended up in a ditch and passed on. Meanwhile his associate with the suspicious bag vanished into the  thin air,” he said. Edgal said  that in view of the incident, the police authorities in Lagos State warned all those with the penchant to burn, destroy or loot its property/armory that, henceforth the command has been compelled to use all lawful means including the use of  firearms to protect such properties and defend its personnel. He said: “You should not allow politicians to come and recruit your children to become thugs. Election in Lagos is more mature now, but don’t  let us allow outsiders to come and cause problems for us. “Okada unions are still unruly. We don’t want mob action in Lagos. If anybody drive rough and there is an accident, don’t mobilize your men to burn down the vehicle or kill the person. It is an accident and accident occurs anywhere in the world. If you take laws into your own hand it then means that you have constituted yourself into the police.”