In March 2016, Bangladesh exited the group of low-income countries that are highly vulnerable to economic and environmental shocks with low level of human assets, otherwise known as Least Developed Countries. The Bangladeshi Acting High Commissioner to Nigeria, Shahnaz Gazi, in this interview, explains how her country exited the group, its development strategies and relations with Nigeria, among others. Excerpts:  Daily Trust: How does your country feel achieving this feat? Shahnaz Gazi: For the second time in the history of independent Bangladesh, the country was adorned with a crown for its achievements in development. The first time was in 2015 when it upgraded itself to the World Bank’s “lower middle income” category by increasing its Gross National Income. By becoming eligible for graduation from LDC, Bangladesh has taken its status to a new height. This is a very important occasion for our national life. We got our independence in 1971 and since then, we have been looking forward to this day. The founding fathers envisioned a country where there won’t be poverty and where its citizens realise its full potentials. And today, the dream of over 160 million people has been realized. The prime minister really worked hard, implementing his development plan. It is a collective effort of everyone, though we have challenges. But when it comes to development, we are united for the good of the country and  people. We hope to do better in the coming days to eradicate poverty. We are on the right track of moving the country forward. In the meantime, while celebrating Bangladesh’s latest achievement, we have to recognize that we are facing a world full of challenges and crises. We have to be prepared for a world increasingly battling with conservatism, protectionism, extremism, refugee crises and confrontations. At the same time, the world has also set ambitious plans to be fulfilled by 2030. We are committed to these goals. DT: Where do you see Bangladesh in the next few years? Gazi: In recognition of the long-term development challenges, the Bangladeshi government under the leadership of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina adopted the Vision 2021, the year we will be celebrating the 50th anniversary of our independence. Along with higher per capital income, Vision 2021 lays down a development scenario where citizens will have a higher standard of living, will be better educated, face better social justice, have more equitable socio-economic environment, and the sustainability of development will be ensured through better protection from climate change and natural disasters. Digital Bangladesh is an integral part of Vision 2021 and it implies the broad use of computers and embodies the modern philosophy of effective and useful use of technology in terms of implementing the promises in education, health, job placement and poverty reduction. Meanwhile, Bangladesh has been identified as one of the Next-11 economies in the world. The N-11 are eleven countries - Bangladesh, Egypt, Indonesia, Iran, Mexico, Nigeria, Pakistan, The Philippines, Turkey, South Korea and Vietnam - identified by Goldman Sachs investment banker and economist Jim O’Neill in a research paper as having a high potential of becoming, along with the BRICS countries, among the world’s largest economies in the 21st century. DT: What is your assessment of bilateral relations between Nigeria and Bangladesh? Gazi: Bangladesh and Nigeria have been enjoying friendly bilateral relations since the establishment of diplomatic relations in the 1970s. Bangladesh opened its High Commission in Abuja on November 26, 2016. Bangladesh has requested the Nigerian authorities on different occasions to reciprocate the initiative and open their mission in Bangladesh. We are hopeful that will be done very soon. Both Bangladesh and Nigeria share similar values and ideals as common members of the United Nations, Non-Aligned Movement (NAM), Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC), the Commonwealth and D-8 group. The potentials for enhancement of trade and economic cooperation between the two countries is immense. Mutual collaboration in scientific, education, energy sector and cooperation in investment promotion, information and communication technology sector will strengthen our friendly bond. Nigeria military officers have been attending senior professional courses in our Defense Services Command and Staff College, National Defense College and other defense training institutions and performing well over the past years. It is expected that Nigeria will continue to utilize such facilities. We also share our experiences in the areas of development, poverty alleviation, women empowerment, infrastructure development, fighting terrorism, etc. Our bilateral trade and exchanges are increasing and we hope to continue to work with Nigeria on all issues of mutual interest for the benefit of our two peoples. DT: What is your take on the trade cooperation? Gazi: Trade between the two countries is not as it should be but there are huge potentials to improve it. Bangladesh produces good ceramics and exports to Europe and Americas. We also export pharmaceuticals. Nigeria ranks high among North and West African countries as an export destination for Bangladeshi jute goods, ceramics, tobacco and cotton bags. This trade trend is likely to continue and expand further in the years to come. DT: How would you describe your stay in Nigeria? Gazi: I have been in the country for about 10 months. Nigeria is such a beautiful country, its people are very nice and the weather condition is good, sunny like Bangladesh. It’s a great country. People are very friendly and receptive. Though we are thousands of miles apart, we have so much in common. We have about 1,000 Bangladeshis in Nigeria. I will always remember Nigeria even after leaving at the end of my tour of duty. Both the government and good people of Nigeria are very helpful and cooperative. We thank them because without their support, we cannot open the mission so quickly.