The Chairman, Punch Nigeria Limited, Gbadebowale Wayne Aboderin, popularly known as Wale, has died at the age of 60, a statement signed for the family by Angela Emuwa said yesterday. “The Aboderin Family in Kudeti, Ibadan regret to announce the death of our illustrious and Chairman Punch Nigeria Limited, Mr. Gbadebowale Wayne Aboderin. “He died on Wednesday, May 30, 2018 at 6.05am after a heart surgery at the First Cardiology Consultants, Ikoyi, Lagos at the age of 60. “Gbadebowale was also the Chairman of Punch Commercial Printing Limited and Lukahed Properties Limited,” the statement read in part. He attended the Government College, Ibadan and trained as a pilot at the Burnside-Ott Flying School, Florida, United States. He was appointed the Chairman, Board of Directors of Punch Nigeria Limited in 2012 before being elected as the Chairman of the African Media Initiative (AMI) by the organisation’s board in Nairobi, Kenya in June 2017. AMI is a pan-African umbrella body of Africa’s private and independent media sector that seeks to promote democratic governance, social development and economic goals. As Chairman of The Punch, his tenure was said to have witnessed ground-breaking changes in the editorial quality, management and fortunes of the newspaper, including a successful redesign, the inauguration of several digital initiatives and the newspaper’s win of several local and international awards. The Punch Newspaper which was registered on August 8, 1970 to engage in the business of “publishing newspapers, magazines and other periodicals of public interest” was founded by Wale’s father, late Chief James Olu Aboderin. Chief Aboderin was succeeded by Chief Moyo Aboderin before Chief Ajibola Ogunshola took over from Chief Moyo. Wale, as Gbadebowale was popularly known, took over from Chief Ogunshola six years ago. “A sport enthusiast and philanthropist, Gbadebowale was the Founder and Chairman of the Dolphins Female Basket Foundation. He was a former Chairman of the Lagos State Basketball Association and a former member of the Nigerian Handball Federation,” the statement read. When Daily Trust visited the Aboderin family house at S6/81 Kudeti, Ibadan, Thursday evening, the one storey building was under lock and key. Neighbours spoken to claimed ignorance of the development. Meanwhile, the Nigerian Press Organisation (NPO), consisting of the Newspaper Proprietors’ Association of Nigeria (NPAN), the Nigerian Guild of Editors (NGE) and the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ), said it was “saddened at the news of the untimely death” Mr. Aboderin. A statement signed by President of the NPO Nduka Obaigbena described Wale’s death as “a big blow, not just to the Punch Group, but to the entire media landscape of Nigeria and Africa. He followed generations of media owners who served the public purpose. We offer our condolences to the Aboderin family and the Punch Group.” President Muhammadu Buhari has also condoled with the family Aboderin. Buhari, in a statement by his spokesman Garba Shehu, equally commiserated with all members of the Newspapers Proprietors Association of Nigeria (NPAN), the media and sports industry in the country on the death of the respected entrepreneur and philanthropist. He expressed belief that Aboderin, who was greatly admired by his peers in the media and sports industry, would be long remembered for his resourcefulness, managerial proficiency and invaluable contributions to the growth of these sectors.