The Nigeria Immigration Service (NIS) has been accused of protecting its personnel, who was allegedly involved in expatriate quota trafficking. A petition by one Lawal Abdu Hashim, a resident of Kaduna, said the NIS was deliberately ignoring allegations against one Imam Aminu, an Immigration Officer at Murtala Muhammed International Airport in Lagos. Hashim, in his most recent petition to the Secretary of the Civil Defence, Fire, Immigration and Prison Service Board on May 14, 2018 complained that the NIS investigation panel concealed facts relating to corruption in the service, insisting that such action was frustrating the fight against corruption by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said, “I wish to officially...forward my petition against the attitude of your (NIS) investigative personnel entrusted with responsibility to investigate one Imam Aminu of (NIS) on issues bordering corruption sometimes in 2015.” He alleged that the accused in connivance with teams of investigators headed by one David Yerima and Cynthia Nwokeogu as Secretary, presented a ‘misleading’ report. He said an Assistant Comptroller General of Immigration, Mr. N. C Ndife acted on the said report to conclude that the issue be treated administratively in June 2015. Hashim called on the board to investigate the issue, stressing that “...if properly and transparently investigated, the issue of conspiracy, aiding and concealment and or suppressing of vital documents/official information can surely be established.” Response by the NIS Comptroller-General through ACG Ndife, dated June 18, 2015, the service had advised the petitioner to seek legal redress in court. Allegations Hashim had alleged that Aminu engaged in expatriate quota trafficking “through three of the four different types of companies he jointly floated with his foreign partners; Matawalle Global Ventures Ltd, Matawalle Travels and Tours Ltd, Maya Sky Ltd and 3 Brand Resources Ltd.” Hashim also alleged that the NIS officer used his office to obtain property and divert the country’s natural resources by false pretences. He said Aminu engaged in running private businesses which was in violation of section 2 (b) to the 5th schedule of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. In a letter Hashim wrote to the Comptroller General of Immigration on March 10, 2015, he maintained that the officer’s activities were a clear case of corruption and should not be swept under the carpet. Action by NIS Daily Trust was unable to reach the head of NIS investigation panel David Yerima on phone as his number was not connecting. However, the secretary of the panel, Cynthia Nwokeogu told Daily Trust that the case was treated without fear or favour. “After our investigation, he [Aminu] was given query which he answered and he was warned to desist from actively taking part in business ventures that are not related to agriculture,” she said. She added that, in the warning letter, he was informed that he would be sacked if he was again linked with management of any company in the future. When asked if the warning was enough for breaching the civil service rule, she said “Is the warning not enough? It was his first time.” Meanwhile, speaking with Daily Trust, the petitioner insisted that there was deliberate attempt to sweep the case under the carpet, stressing that the NIS had no power to investigate the case as the accused is a senior staff. “The board that has the power to investigate senior personnel was not informed and the warning given to the officer is not good enough”, he said. “There are punishments for this type of offense in the civil service rule and that should have been applied.”