As you read this, the Super Eagles would have played their second group match against Iceland. If it ended in victory for the Eagles, they would have kept hope alive. However, if it ended in defeat, it means their journey in Russia has ended the same way it happened in 2002 and 2010. It will be recalled that the Super Eagles opened their campaign in Russia on a shaky note with a 0-2 loss to European giants Croatia in Kiliningrad. An own goal by midfielder, Oghenekaro Etebo in the first half of the match fired up the Croats who added a second in the second half from the spot after clumsy defending by Williams Troost-Ekong. The performance of the Super Eagles didn’t go down well with Nigerian football fans who vehemently questioned the team’s tactical formation. Most football analysts felt some of the players were played out of position by Gernot Rohr who played John Mikel Obi in an attacking position just as he preferred Bryan Idowu to Elderson Echiejele in the left full back position. The dust raised by the defeat against Croatia was yet to settle as the Eagles went into their second group match against Iceland yesterday. For most people, it takes the morning to know the evening so the performance of the Super Eagles in their last two friendly matches against England and Czech Republic was signal for doom. Consequently, except for some incurable optimists, most football fans didn’t expect much from the Super Eagles. They pointed at Eagles’ poor run to the World Cup as their reason for what may be seen as pessimism. Going by the performance of the Super Eagles so far in Russia, a huge shadow of doubt is hovering over the future of the present leadership of the NFF, players of the Super Eagles and the team’s technical crew. In all fairness, the present Nigeria Football Federation led by Amaju Pinnick did everything necessary to prepare the team for the World Cup. Unfortunately, many would say the Eagles have not done enough to help Pinnick’s political ambition. It is an open secret that the former Chairman of Delta State Sports Commission is eying a second term, a feat none of his predecessors could achieve. Unfortunately, the performance of the Super Eagles at the World Cup is often times used to decide the failure or success of the leadership of the NFF. Since the Eagles have never gNFFd the round of 16 inntheir previous outings beginning from 1994, no NFF president has survived the boot once the team crashes at the World Cup. It will be recalled that Pinnick who became the president of NFF under controversial circumstances is facing a court case instituted against him by the factional president of the NFF, Ambassador Chris Giwa since 2014. Although the weight of the court case is heavy on his neck, it was hoped that a good outing by the Super Eagles in Russia would be his selling point ahead of the forthcoming NFF election. Even as the minister of sports had ordered for suspension of all electoral activities, clandestine campaigns are ongoing ahead of the 2018 NFF elections. Thus, for those opposed to Pinnick as NFF president, a poor outing by the Super Eagles in Russia is enough to deflate what is left of his popularity among football stakeholders. As said earlier, as at the time of press, the Eagles versus Iceland match was not played so it is the result of the second group match that will determine the fate of the Eagles and the NFF president. If they crash out early, then Pinnick will surely need divine intervention to continue in his exalted position in the NFF. Again, it will be recalled that those who desperately worked to oust former NFF presidents, Alhaji Sani Lulu Abdullahi and his successor, Alhaji Aminu Maigari based their actions on the performances of the Super Eagles at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa and Brazil 2014. Although the Eagles reached the round of 16 in Brazil, that was not enough to save Maigari’s job. Beyond the leadership of the NFF, trouble is also looming large for the players themselves. As much as their performance would play a huge part in deciding the fate of Pinnick and his board, they too would face the brunt of a disastrous campaign in Russia. If in the end they raised and dashed the hopes of millions of football loving Nigerians, most of them would have inflicted ‘compulsory’ retirement on themselves. Similar fate had befallen past Super Eagles players who formed part of the squads that broke the hearts of Nigerian football fans. At the end of the 2002 World Cup in Korea/Japan, players like Taribo West, Efe Sodje, Eric Ejiofor, Mutiu Adepoju, Garba Lawal, Benedict Akwuegbu, John Ukata, Ike Shorunmu and Julius Aghahowa bowed out of the Super Eagles. And at the end of the 2010 edition in South Africa, at least a dozen Eagles had to leave. Rabiu Afolabi, Chidi Odiah, Danny Shittu, Taye Taiwo, Dickson Etuhu, Lukman Haruna, Sani Kaita, Ayilla Yusuf, Kanu Nwankwo, Chinedu Obasi, Victor Obinna and John Utaka exited the stage unceremoniously. Brazil 2014 was the turn of the likes of Joseph Yobo, Ejike Uzoenyi, Reuben Gabriel, Efe Ambrose, Azubuike Egwuekwe, Peter Odemwingie, Emmanuel Emenike, Juwon Oshaniwa, Godfrey Oboabona, Ramon Azeez, Uche Nwafor, Michael Uchebo, Michael Babatunde and Shola Amoebi to end their international careers. It is an open secret that only five out of the 2014 squad survived and are part of the team in Russia. But indications are strong that this would be the last World Cup for at least four of the five of 2014, John Mikel Obi, Kenneth Omeruo, Ahmed Musa and Onazi Ogenyi. However, Chelsea’s Victor Moses may survive to continue to provide inspiration for World Cup debutants like Wilfred Ndidi, Alex Iwobi, Kelechi Iheanacho, Troost Ekong, Leon Balogun, Shehu Abdullahi, Tyrone Ebuehi, Francis Uzoho, and Oghenekaro Etebo. But players like Daniel Akpeyi, Elderson Echeijele, John Ogu, Joel Obi and Odion Ighalo who are in the present squad are most likely going to bow out with the four surviving members of class of 2014. Thus, going by events that have unfolded so far, Russia 2018 portends trouble for the present leadership of the NFF and some members of the Super Eagles. Unless a miracle happens, once Super Eagles’ run at the 2018 World Cup ends abruptly, heads might begin to roll.