The Aminu Kano Centre for Democratic Research and Training, Mubayya House, has organized a two-day annual symposium for leaders of faith-based organizations (FBOs) in the northwest zone with the aim of building their capacity on fighting corruption. The theme of the symposium was “Towards strengthening collective action against corruption through faith-based Platforms”. In his presentation at the symposium, the Deputy Secretary General Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, Dr Salisu Shehu, said “There is almost a consensus the one and only serious problem of our country has always been the lack of r4eswponsible leadership. At the centre of this leadership crisis is the endemic problem of corruption”. He added that since its takeover of the mantle of leadership, the present government under President Muhammadu Buhari has been struggling to live to its most important campaign promise of fighting corruption. As such, the country has become suddenly conscientized about the evils of corruption and the necessity of fighting it. Dr Shehu said, social injustice and corruption in Nigeria have almost been institutionalized and are about to be adopted, even if informally, as approved societal norms and order. “Their destructive effects, however, on society are clear to everyone. If anything, they have become cogs in the wheel of national development,” he added. On his part, the district superintendent of assemblies of God, Reverend Zephaniah Isah, emphasized the need for collective action in fighting corruption which he referred to as the collaborative and sustained process of cooperation among stakeholders that increases the impact and credibility of individual action, brings vulnerable individual players into an alliance of like-minded organizations and levels the playing field between individuals. He added that the dilemma of corruption in Nigeria is a general issue that affects all Nigerians, hence the fight against corruption cannot be done by the government alone. “It requires the joint effort of all,” he said. Earlier, in his welcome address, the director of the centre, Professor Haruna Wakili, said the symposium was  one of the series of activities funded by MacArthur Foundation that are going to take place for three years, with a grant of $1m. “Basically, the symposium is about strengthening the capacity of the leaders of faith-based organizations in the northwest zone. We brought leaders of selected FBOs in the zone with the intent to empower them and educate them on how best to fight corruption,” Prof Wakili has said He added that the organizers of the symposium have envisaged that bringing the leaders of the two major religions would foster unity and network among them. “They are Christians and Muslim leaders. We feel that they would establish network and they would come together in their respective states to fight corruption, and we felt fighting corruption through inter-faith approach will add value to the crusade against corruption,” he said.