Daily Trust: How does it feel being the best overall graduating student in your department at AUN? Hafsat Jalilah Adamu: At first it felt really good because it showed that the four years didn’t go to waste and my effort was finally seen. But after a few hours, the feeling began to wear off. I just felt like every other person, but that’s mostly because that’s what I expected of myself so it wasn’t exactly something out of the blue. I saw it coming because I’ve been through the four years and I know what I expected of myself. But I was really happy, of course. DT: Did you expect to graduate with such flying colours? Hafsat: What I noticed with university is that you have the chance to steer it the way you want it to go, and I guess I was able to do that. I initially didn’t think that I would graduate with such a result but after my first year, I just decided that I was going to aim for excellence and I had quite a good start so I just made sure I didn’t relent. DT: How did you achieve this result? Hafsat: I don’t think there’s any secret. At least I don’t have one. I am a terrible procrastinator so I don’t know if there are any secrets for me to give since procrastination and doing well don’t mix together at all. But I know what I want and I go for it. Sometimes, I would have a deadline to meet and I would leave it until the last minute to get it done. It’s a really bad habit that I tried to stop but to be honest, it didn’t really work. I just knew what I wanted and worked towards it until I got there. DT: What’s your study pattern like? Hafsat: I don’t have one, not really. I just studied when I need to study. But what I do is I always read my notes before class. One of my professors gave me this tip. He told me when he was an undergraduate student, he would write on the front of the page and leave the back blank so that after class when he reads, he leaves other notes from reading he does outside the classroom or research he might have done on the topic taken in the class or whatever pops into his mind while he’s reading the notes. So I try to read my notes after class. I was an English major and I also minored in Politics which involves a lot of reading even outside class. So I think I had a pool of resources to draw from and then it was mostly a lot of writing, and various opinions, so it was easy for me to get away without studying sometimes. DT: How hard did you have to study? Hafsat: Very hard. There’s this perception that our school, AUN, is a relaxed and lenient school, but honestly, that’s not true. You actually have to work for what you want. Anything that you have to go to school for is very challenging and as a long as a place is a school, there’s a level of challenge you’ll meet to learn to grow and get where you need to get to. So I put in a lot of effort, I cried and a lot more, but I made it through. DT: What gave you the greatest challenge during the course of your studies? Hafsat: I would say dealing with procrastination. I think in all of my four years, there was just one time when I wrote a paper and turned it in two weeks before the deadline. But usually like I said, I’m scribbling at the last minute before 11:59. But what it showed me is if I actually take my time to do it, I could do it better because even under pressure, I do a half-good job and get away with it with. So perhaps if I had dealt with that, I could have done way better. DT: Being one of the smartest students in school must have come with a lot of attention. Did other students pressure you for help during exams and such? Hafsat: Not really. The school has a very strict academic code of conduct which we all try to abide by and I also try to stick to my morals which is doing what is right. There wasn’t much pressure but personally, I feel like something is expected of me, I try to help since it’s not just about getting a qualification, it’s about getting an education and really has to do is being able to do something with what you’ve learnt and that’s why I engaged in a lot of community service programmes which my school engaged in. DT: Have you always been the ‘brainy’ type or was this a walk towards a goal for you? Hafsat: It has always been like this for me. Right from primary school, I always used to do well in class not because there was any pressure from home or school but it kind of came naturally, and I also wanted to do well. DT: What role did your parents and family play in your success? Hafsat: I owe almost everything to them, because most of what I’ve learnt before I stepped out into the world is from them and they’ve always been there for me. So I would say they have played a very big and pivotal role in my success and I’m very thankful to them. DT: What else would you have studied, if not English Literature? Hafsat: I was actually a science student back in secondary school, but even then, my favourite subject was English so I always knew that this was what I wanted. It was my first choice when I was applying for admission. But if not English, then perhaps it would have been International Relations. DT: What do you do in your free time? Hafsat: I hang out with my friends, I go hiking, I eat out, and I also like to read, and watch documentaries on social issues and art. DT: What advice do you have for students who find it hard to cope with their studies? Hafsat: I’d tell them not to beat themselves up because there’s only so much a person can do so they should just try their best and it will all pass. Everything will be fine. DT: Career-wise, what’s the next step for you? Hafsat: Immediately, it’s NYSC. Then graduate school, still in the same course, of course, and also in creative writing.