The disappearance of Hauwa Muhammad had her family apprehensive. On May 29, at about 10:00am, police in Damaturu, Yobe State, responded to a distress call concerning a corpse found behind Ruwasa area, along Gujba road. So, shortly after the 25-year-old lady’s corpse was discovered, police arrested Hauwa’s boyfriend, Muhammad Isa Adamu, who later confessed to have lured her into a bush, and slit her throat. Hauwa’s older brother, Saidu Zakari Muhammad, who has been her guardian since the death of their parents 19 years ago, said she was sent to a nearby shop to buy bread for breakfast. “Around 10:30 at night, she had still not returned home, so we began to panic. We went out to search for her until around the curfew hours. I went back home worried, waiting for her to return. I woke up the next morning to an empty room. That left me completely devastated. So I rushed to YBC for a public announcement and reported to the police. At around 10:00am, we got the bad news that her body was found.” On Hauwa’s  relationship with Adamu, he said he knew they courted for two years before they decided to end it months ago, adding that Adamu’s brother once came to ask for his sister’s hand in marriage but elders in the family insisted that he must get a job first. Muhammad described his sister as a quiet, pious and responsible young woman who hardly quarrelled with anyone. Hadiza, her younger sister, said: “One thing I hold dear to my heart was the last discussion I had with her about marriage. She was worried about distance coming between us, as we were very attached to each other after our mother’s death.” “Our father died when we were very little children, leaving us under our mother’s care. Nine years later, our mother also died leaving us to our brother Saidu. Since then, Hauwa assumed full responsibility of a mother to me, she wiped away my tears and supported me all the way. I can’t withstand this tragedy.” “I want my sister’s killer punished without delay,” Hadiza added. Adamu, at the police headquarters in Damaturu, told Daily Trust that he committed the crime under the influence of drugs. “I started dating Hauwa since 2014, and she has never offended me. I have been abusing drugs for almost five years. I even went to Azare General Hospital to seek medical advice in order to get rid of my addiction; I tried as much as possible to convince my family to meet Hauwa’s over our marital arrangement but my efforts were unsuccessful.” “Eventually, another man started dating her. That was the beginning of our problem. She told me that if my family could not meet hers, I should allow the other man to do so. Apart from that, there was no problem between us.” “One day, I popped some pills, and decided to end both our lives. She stopped me from killing myself, even as she lay dying,” Adamu said. “She further advised me before she bled to death, that I should repent and seek Allah’s forgiveness. I then promised her not to kill myself and report myself to the police, which is why when the DPO ‘C’ division called me, I reported at once,” he said. Adamu told Daily Trust that he is a fresh graduate of the Federal College of Technical Education, Potiskum. Yobe State Commissioner of Police, Abdulmaliki Sumonu, said Adamu, 30, had invited Hauwa somewhere beside Ruwasa and asked her to close her eyes. “After she did that, unknown to her he had a knife and slit her throat. He led the police to an uncompleted building where he hid the murder weapon.”