A Former Deputy Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), Prince Kinsley Moghalu has explained his reasons for aspiring for president in the 2019 general elections, saying “My vision is wage decisive war against drug abuse and poverty.”

Speaking at Emir’s palace Kano when he paid a courtesy visit on the Emir, Muhammad Sanusi ll, Moghalu lamented that the rate of poverty in Nigeria was a serious national security threat that could not be overlooked by any serious government.

Moghalu said he was aspiring for the office of president for three reasons; to build a nation that would unite its citizens devoid of their religion and ethnic differences, to revive the nation’s economy and restore the country’s lost glory.

He further said, “The rate of poverty, unemployment and drug abuse especially among youth and women is getting worst by the day. My vision is to wage a decisive war against these vices. I have an economic plan that is independent from oil. I have a one trillion ventured capital economic plan that will provide job opportunities to youths and women.

 “The economy of the country is in terrible condition. Poverty is striking everywhere in the country. This is the effect of the economic mismanagement by the previous governments. Your Highness, you and I shared common economic vision. You are a traditional leader, if to say you are aspiring for the position of president, I will not compete with you in the race.”

Responding, Emir Sanusi urged politicians to ensure that the 2019 general election was peaceful, noting that peace was the key to development and progress of every nation.

Emir Sanusi also admonished politicians to allow electorates to elect leaders of their choice, saying under a democratic regime, everyone has a right to elect leaders of his choice.

Turning to the aspirants, the emir said it was not the contest that matters, rather the contribution a contestant could offer to improve the living standard of the electorates if elected.

“I have worked with four deputy governors while I am governor of the CBN and all of you have retired now. I have confidence that if all of you can hold elective offices; you can offer something that can better the lives of your subjects. Whether you win or lost election, by allowing yourselves to rob minds with electorates, you will certainly contribute to their lives in one way or the other,” he said.