The Rotary Club of Maitama, Abuja, has built and donated a two-room residential quarters to health workers in Galuwyi, a suburb of Bwari Area council. Commissioning the project, the District Governor of District 9125, Rotarian Nnoka Mbanefo, noted that the project would help ensure the functionality of the Primary Health Care (PHC) clinic in the community. Nnoka said a residential quarters would make health personnel deployed to work in Galuwyi remain there instead of the current practice whereby they came and left because of lack of accomodation. He called on the members of the community to ensure that projects constructed by Rotary clubs were properly maintained, saying, “These projects have been constructed to help ease the medical needs of this community.  Please help us to secure them and maintain them so that we can do much more with the little at our disposal.” The district governor also commissioned a signpost to acknowledge the presence of Rotary in the community. “Rotary clubs do a lot in their vicinities, but unfortunately, are unable to show their presence by putting up signposts or billboards to showcase their works,” he added. The President of the club, Victoria Nkem Orakwue, said the Rotary Club Maitama had earlier renovated the PHC facility to make it more functional to reduce the burden of maternal and infant mortality in Galuwyi. “We were told that most health personnel, when deployed to work in the community, leave because they do not have suitable accommodation, so the club decided to build a residential quarters so that these personnel can do their work effectively,” she said. The Chief of the community, Ezekiel Dankai Sarki, expressed gratitude and promised that the project would be well looked after so that the purpose for which it was constructed would not be lost. The Community Health Worker, Mr. John Agbo, who said he had worked in the community for over seven years, called on the area council to send more personnel to assist him provide health care for the community. Mr. Agbo lamented that due to lack of electricity, it was difficult for the facility to carry out immunisation and offer ante-natal services. “We have no fridge to house the vaccines, so most of the women have to go to Shere for their ante-natal. Moreover, even delivery is quite difficult because the accommodation was not conducive. “I thank Rotary for this gesture, but we need more from the area council to help meet the needs of these people.”