The military and the police have deployed troops in support of efforts to quell the crisis that erupted in parts of Plateau State over the weekend, leading to the death of 86 persons. This is just as Vice President Yemi Osinbajo visited the state yesterday where he met stakeholders and leaders of Berom and Fulani communities at the Little Rayfield Government House. Osinbajo said the resurgence of violence in Plateau State was inexcusable adding that the state had in the last three years been used as a model of how other communities could live together peacefully. Osinbajo said everything possible must be done to ensure that the crisis does not degenerate into religious violence which “nobody can survive.” He described as unfortunate that the social media was besieged with all sorts of true and untrue stories that could escalate the situation. Perpetrators will be arrested, prosecuted - Lalong Also speaking, Plateau State Governor Simon Bako Lalong said he was disappointed that violence had returned between the Berom and Fulani especially since the two communities were instrumental to the drafting of the road map to peace document. “We have used the Berom and Fulani template to encourage other people in the state to live in peace. But if I say I was disappointed in what led to this crisis, it would be an understatement but God knows everything,” he said. Lalong also vowed to ensure that the perpetrators of the killings were arrested and prosecuted, adding that “the resurgence of violence in the state is a stark reminder of the magnitude of peace and security challenges.” The governor had in a state wide broadcast commiserated with the families of those killed and stressed that his administration remains committed to arresting the vicious circle of violence as well as laying the foundation for sustainable peace. 2 killed, 30 houses burnt in fresh violence Two persons were killed and over 30 houses and shops set ablaze yesterday in Dorowa-Babuje community of Barkin Ladi local government area of Plateau State. Daily Trust reports that Dorowa, a community inhabited by both Christians and Muslims had been tensed since Saturday’s attack that led to the death of over 86 persons in some communities of Barkin Ladi. By 6pm, Abubakar Aliyu and Dauda Daniel told journalists that the intervention of Operation Safe Haven had averted serious break down of law and order. 16 travellers, police ASP killed, over 10 missing At least 16 travellers including a police ASP were ambushed and killed along Anguldi, Mararaban Foron and Mararaban Jama’a in Jos south on Sunday in a reprisal meted on travellers following attacks in some villages of Barkin Ladi local government area of Plateau State. Daily Trust reports that some of the victims were burnt beyond recognition in their vehicles while eight out of the 16 were said to be Fulani youths from Kanke and Pankshin on their way to the Citizenship and Leadership Training Centre, Shere Hills for the annual peace youth camp organised by a popular nongovernmental organisation. Sources from the NGO yesterday told Daily Trust that the remains of two of the youths were recovered yesterday and a meeting was held with security operatives to alert them that the families of the youths were yet to be notified of their children’s fate. “Other youths who were travelling with the eight youths had informed us that the eight had been removed from the vehicle and killed, we have found the remains of two but the remaining six are yet to be recovered,” a source from the NGO told Daily Trust. However, the Bukuru Muslim community, aided by Muslim aid group and the Bukuru Police Divisional Officer (DPO) also recovered eight corpses, seven of whom were buried at the Dadin Kowa Muslim cemetery. Four out of the corpses were buried separately in the morning while three others who were burnt were given a mass burial. The leader of search and recovery mission, Alhaji Danlami Yaro, said the other corpse was identified as a police officer with the rank of ASP. “We identified one of the victims as a police officer with the rank of ASP from the remains of his uniform and his tag name. We could not burry him because we are expecting his family or the police to come and pick his corpse,” he said. Several cars including a student bus of the Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), and truck load of food grains on its way to Niger State were burnt while the truck driver and a conductor were said to be missing. The commander of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH), Major General, Anthony Atolagbe, was also on the spot for assessment while the search was done under the protection of the Bukuru Police DPO, Chidi Zobe and his men. Also, our correspondent gathered that 11 families around Bauchi road had reported missing persons but security agents say numbers of the dead and missing were still being compiled. Operation Safe Haven Media and Information Officer, Major Adam Umar, said additional personnel had been deployed to Bauchi road and Bukuru areas to douse tension. Military sends additional Special Forces The Chief of Defence Staff, General Abayomi Gabriel Olonisakin has authorized the deployment of additional Special Forces to Plateau State to beef up the strength of Operation Safe Haven (OPSH) in the state. The additional troops which arrived Jos, capital of Plateau State yesterday were received and briefed by the Commander OPSH, Major General AM Atolagbe on their new assignment. A statement signed by the Acting Director ‎of Defence Information, Brigadier General John Agim, said the Armed Forces of Nigeria warned all misguided youths who have offered themselves to be used as thugs that if they are apprehended they would receive the full weight of the law. He said, “Herdsmen and farmers are also warned not to take laws into their hands; rather suspected persons should be reported promptly to security agencies. The Nigerian Air Force (NAF) has also deployed an Mi-35P combat helicopter and an Intelligence Surveillance and Reconnaissance (ISR) aircraft. A statement signed by the Director of Public Relations and Information, Air Vice Marshal Olatokunbo Adesanya said the deployment of the ISR aircraft is expected to enhance intelligence gathering while the combat helicopter would conduct armed reconnaissance and other combat air support operations in close coordination with surface forces deployed to the state. IGP deploys two helicopters, five APCs The Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris has deployed a special intervention force to Plateau State to restore peace in Barkin-Ladi, Riyom, Jos South LGA, and other troubled spots in the state. A statement on Monday by Police spokesman DCP Jimoh Moshood said the Deputy Inspector General of Police, Department of Operation has also been relocated to Jos, Plateau State. He added that two helicopters, five APCs, three PMF Units, two CTU Cells and Police Intelligence Unit are already deployed to the affected areas in Plateau State. He said the Police Special investigation Team led by Commissioner of Police, IGP Monitoring Unit, will ensure the full enforcement of the curfew imposed on the affected areas by the Plateau State Government and carry out twenty four hours surveillance and patrol, stop and search of vehicles, and suspected locations and hideouts of the assailants. Moshood said traditional rulers, religious leaders, community leaders, youth groups, public office holders, politicians, opinion leaders, parents and guardians are hereby called upon to prevail on their subjects, adherents/followers, children and wards to support the personnel of the Police Special Intervention Force in the discharge of their responsibilities. The road to trouble Daily Trust reports that the build up to Saturday’s attack in Plateau State had manifested since April with ambushes, cattle rustlings and mutilations as well as silent killings. Our correspondent had reported over a dozen stories of attacks and counter attacks between the two groups as the disturbance escalated in early June when more than 15 Berom were killed in separate silent attacks between June 2nd and 21st. On their part, the Fulani had raised alarm that over eight persons had been killed and 400 cattle rustled and moved into Berom communities in Barkin Ladi while about 38 cattle had been macheted and shot dead. The final stroke had been the killing of four Berom last Thursday which was followed by a reprisal on five Fulani herders who were killed around Heipang in Barkin Ladi. 