“Becoming a fashion designer in this competitive industry will require a lot from you. Many come into the profession because it can be glamourous but only few attain the success they seek. If you are considering becoming a fashion designer, find out if you have what it takes to succeed because until you have those qualities, you will always struggle” says an Abuja based fashion designer, Alheri Sim Adamu. Alheri who officially launched her fashion brand ‘Alheri Style Empire’, in 2016, listed fashion knowledge, creativity and originality amongst others as the qualities of a good fashion designer. The graduate of Industrial design from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria who hails from Kaduna state started her fashion and cosmetics business because she wants “to change the game of fashion business in Nigeria”. Alheri said her fashion brand is aimed at satisfying both men and women in Nigeria and abroad. “I have a vision of designing fabrics that are unique and make my clients look exceptionally exquisite at every function they go. “That is why I make exceptional outfits for my clients because I believe that the future of my business lies in the number of my loyal customers, the capacity and competence of my employees, the investment strategy and business structure I put in place” she said. Alheri who is also a cosmetics designer initially learnt how to sew from her mum, before perfecting her skill from a fashion school. “When I started the business in 2010, I was still a student at the university. I was making T- shirts and costumes for very little price. I was actually testing the market, trying to see what the future will look like. Then in my 300 Level (2011), I launched my first collection in Abuja.” “For the cosmetics ‘Alheri cosmetics’, I started about a month ago, and it is a brand under Alheri style Empire, and the main reason why I started cosmetics business is to help young people earn and to teach them how to become entrepreneurs  and so far, I am getting positive feedback from people, so it is productive” she said. Although her dad wanted her to study medicine, Alheri said he is today her biggest supporter. “I actually got my creativity from him, my dad is the best artist I know and I learnt almost everything I know today from him. On the other hand my mum was also a tailor so I picked a lot from her as well” she said. She told YOUTHVILLE she started the business with just N5,000 and is now reaping the benefits because the business is lucrative and the turnover is impressive, even as she is hoping for more clients. Alheri who hopes to be a well-known designer in the fashion industry abroad said her business has faced a lot of challenges but the greatest challenge so far has been funding challenge. The fashion designer also called on young entrepreneurs to make use of social media platforms to advertise their business because it is the easiest way to get their business out there for visibility adding that that’s what she uses and it has proven effective.