Residents of Kwara, including prominent indigenes of the state, on  Tuesday engaged in heated debate over  the probe of the allegations made  against Senate President Bukola Saraki by suspects arrested over the  April 5 Offa bank robbery in which no fewer than 33 persons were killed. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the police had  initially invited Saraki for interrogation before soft pedalling to  request for only a written explanation within 48 hours. Also linked to the bloody robbery incident in which nine policemen  were killed was Gov. Abdulfatah Ahmed of Kwara following alleged claims  by the suspects that they were political thugs working for the duo. But the senate president and Ahmed had both  dismissed the allegations as an attempt to frame them. Many Kwarans, however,  expressed support for the police in the  ongoing investigation and have called on Saraki to respond to the  allegations made against him in order to clear his name. Others dismissed the allegations, saying they were aimed at  tarnishing the image of the senate president and the governor of his  home state. The respondents  spoke to NAN in separate interviews in Ilorin. Dr Amuda Aluko, an elder statesman,  said it would  be better for the  senate president to respond to the police request in order to clear his  name. Aluko, the Tafida of Ilorin, who  was of the view that Saraki could   never be involved in robbery, however, said it had become expedient   for him  to clear his name since he was allegedly mentioned by the  suspects. He said his Kwara Liberation Group had spoken out about a week ago  urging Nigerians to  allow the police carry out their  duty on the case  of  cultists transferred to Abuja from the state. Prof. Suleiman Abubakar, a former Minister of National Planning, was  of the view that “ if the senate president has  no skeleton in his  cupboard, he should honour police invitation to clear his name.’’ According to him, the claim by the  suspects that they have links  with the senate president makes it imperative that Saraki avails   himself of the opportunity offered by the police  to clear his name. Prof . Abdulwahab Egbewole of the Department of Law, University of  Ilorin,  on his part,  warned  against “ the politicisation of   the  lives of Nigerians.’’ According to him, the  police have  the right  by law to investigate everybody. “From the trajectory of the matter, it is not regarded as purely a  legal issue. It has some fundamental political undertones, ” he said. The don  said that from the alleged confession of the  Offa robbery  suspects, it was revealed that Saraki gave a vehicle to a suspect. “They also alleged that he gave them guns;  they, however,  stated that he did not tell them to rob,’’ he said. He also argued that this may be seen as being an accessory to a particular crime in law. Egebwole, however,  pointed out that the anti-cultism law in Kwara   put in place by the Saraki administration  was the most stringent in  the country. He wondered how “ a person who puts  in place such a law will now  go  against it,’’  adding that  ” Saraki after all had  said he is ready to  comply with the directives of the police during the course of  investigation.’’ Mr Iyiola Oyedepo, the PDP Chairman in Kwara, urged  the police to  carry out  a thorough investigation into the Offa robbery incident. He also expressed doubt that the senate president  would  support  the suspects to engage in robbery. Oyedepo, however, said  Saraki has a  moral duty to clear his name. He advised the senate president to honour the police request  by  sending  his statement  so as to clear his name. “Did Saraki give them vehicle? Did Saraki provide them guns, are they his political thugs? “All these questions should be answered by Sen.  Bukola Saraki to clear his name,” Oyedepo said. The chairman  called on the people of the state to rise up and demand justice so that the case would not be compromised. In his reaction, Rafiu Hotonu, the State Secretary of the National  Union of Local Government Employers (NULGE), said there was nothing  wrong with the police request asking Saraki to respond to  allegations. “He should honour the request  to clear his name. NULGE  wholeheartedly supports  the police because the suspects  confessed that  they work for the senate president, so he needs  to clear his name. “No matter how highly placed you are in the society, once the police  invite you, you are bound to honour the invitation,” Hotonu said. An Ilorin based legal practitioner, Mr Isaac Oladele,  said there was  no crime in a police invitation, urging Saraki to use  the opportunity  to respond to the allegations. Oladele, who  noted that the police had  even said the senate  president need not appear in person,  also adds:  “ This is an  opportunity for Saraki to clear his name of all the allegations of  sponsoring cultists as thugs and having a link to the  Offa robbery. ” Nobody is above the law, whether  you  are  rich or poor. The law  is no respecter of anybody. I will advise the senate president to honour  the invitation and clear the mess on time.’’ But another  lawyer, Mr Tunde Jimoh,  appealed the public to stop  politicising the matter and allow the police to conduct  their  investigation. ” Nigerians must allow the  police to do a thorough finding. They  must stop the different protests and distractions on social media. “Enough of  interference from the external forces; there is no need  to mount  pressure on the senate president and the  Nigeria Police in  order not to complicate the matter. “The fact that the suspected robbers mentioned Saraki’s name in their  confessional statements  doesn’t mean we should jump to conclusions. “Nigerians must be patient and give room for thorough investigation  and fair hearing from both parties rather than drawing  conclusions, ”  he said. For Funsho Aina, another legal practitioner, the senate president  must respond promptly to the matter “ because of the sensitive position  he is holding. ‘’ ” It is still an allegation for now and he is not yet found guilty.  The best for him (Saraki) is to honourably make his statement on the  matter available before it turns to another thing. “If there is the need for him to step down from his post as senate  president to clear his name, he can do so for the sake of his  integrity  and that of the National Assembly, ” Aina  said.