The All Progressives Congress (APC) Northern Musicians Forum (ANMFO) has apologized to Northern Governors Forum, Governor Abdul’Aziz Yari of Zamfara state, Governor Nasiru El-Rufa’i of Kaduna state and other members of APC over the "N100 million debacle" that surrounded the forum.   The Forum made the apology Friday through its National Vice President Alhaji Murtala Mamsa Jos during a press conference in Jos.  It recalled that the forum was on the news after some members of the forum alleged that the Chairman Board of Trustees of the forum as well as President Buhari’s Praise singer, Dauda Kahutu Rarara and some of his kitchen cabinet have diverted the sum of N100 million given to the forum by Northern Governors’ Forum through the Governor Abdul’Aziz Yari of Zamfara state.  The forum alleged that corrupt politicians and looters who don’t want President Muhammadu Buhari to win the forthcoming 2019 presidential election were behind the ‘crisis’ rocking the forum.  The forum urged the general public to disregard all the allegations raised by some miscreants who don’t want the forum to succeed.  Alhaji Mamsa said the allegations concerning the N100 million were baseless, malicious and fallacious in all ramifications.  “The allegations made by Ibrahim Yala and Abubakar Sani were nothing but baseless, malicious and fallacious in all ramifications. It was a calculated attempt by the looters and corrupt politicians to create chaos and crisis in our forum, so as to make us focus on crisis rather than working for Buhari’s re-election.  “You know our forum has played a vital role in campaigning for Buhari in 2015, and we are still on course to campaign for him for 2019 election, but some looters have implanted moles in our forum in order for us not to have focus.” He said.  He clarified that Rarara and his kitchen cabinet didn’t eat anybody’s kobo, adding that as per as their concern the forum wasn’t in crisis.   When contacted the Governor Abdul’Aziz Yari through his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Ibrahim Dosara clarified that the Zamfara State government only gave the forum the sum of N20 million after the forum solicited for an assistance to open an office in Kaduna and to buy bus.  