Nigerians are this time around faced with a different scenario. In retrospect, almost two years to the 2015 general elections, the handwriting was bold in the wall and there were razor-sharp predictions that the then-ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) was in for trouble for some obvious reasons. The body language of then President Goodluck Jonathan showed he had caved in to ill-advice to vie for another term, hence the valid ground that gave some analysts the courage to say he would be defeated. Jonathan made the move after he completed the first tenure of late President Umaru Yar’adua and went for another election on his own in 2011, which he won. It was thought that Jonathan actually overstretched his luck by flagrantly attempting to “abuse” the unwritten-but-highly-respected rotational arrangement between the North and South in the spirit of brotherhood. This attempt was amidst allegations of poor handling of the economy by Jonathan and his men, including condoning corruption and the apparent lethargy that played out in addressing insecurity, Boko Haram excesses in the North East and parts of North West and North Central, among others. Similarly, by late 2013,  the acrimony in the PDP reached a crescendo, a development that led some strong men, including an ex-vice president, serving and former governors, legislators, and opinion-moulders to launch a revolt in cahoots with the newly-formed All Progressives Congress (APC) which was already making waves through active support of its founders - leaders of the defunct Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN) brought in by Asiwaju Ahmed Tinubu; the Congress for Progressives Change (CPC) by Buhari and his supporters; the All Nigeria Peoples Party (ANPP) by ex-Governors Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano), Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto), among others. All these factors, including the verdict by the international community that Jonathan was a failure, collectively served as the albatross to the sixteen years of the PDP and paved the way for the first successful transition from civilian administration to another civilian government. But pundits opine that though some of the factors that led are still with us, there is the general consensus that the 2019 scenario would be difficult to  predict. Run-off elections Many analysts strongly believe that for some obvious reasons, there would be a run-off for the presidential election with heightened fear that the Nigerian Constitution has not given the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) enough latitude to run a successful one. A run-off is an election conducted when the first election fails to produce a clear winner for the position of president, or governor. This can happen when the candidate with the highest votes does not have the required votes spread in the affected states. Article 134 (2) of the Nigerian Constitution stipulates that a presidential candidate will be duly elected after attaining both the highest number of votes cast, and having received at least a quarter of the votes at each of at least two-thirds of the 36 states and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). “If no candidate satisfies the requirement, a second election will be held between the two leading candidates within seven days from the pronouncement of the result,” the section said. “I see the 2019 presidential election going for rerun,” said Tope Fasua, a renowned columnist and National Chairman of the Abundant Nigeria Renewal Party (ANRP). According to him: “I was the first person in this country who predicted that that election would be hung especially at the presidential level. I wrote articles on this; I looked at  the way things are going, and especially with the mismanagement of optics by the present government which is lucky now to be having upspring in the prices of the crude oil and able to pay over a few things. “But while the prices of crude oil were down and they had no new ideas, they had lost a number of states which they would not be able to get 25 per cent in 2019. All the states in the South East, five of them, forget it! All the states in the South South with the exception of maybe Edo State, they can’t get even 25 per cent. A couple of states in the South West would drop as well. Maybe Lagos, but I’m not sure if the Tinubu effect would come to play this time around; people are just very angry. “Sometimes the anger may be misguided; sometimes you may say they are expecting too much, but the president said ‘I would not fund  peoples’ kids fees abroad’  and the next thing you are seeing are his children  leaving university from there. And he also said people should not travel abroad to take care of themselves, and then he jumps onto the next plane to go there  to take care of himself , and because of that impunity, everyone goes for that same level of impunity,” he said. “So there’s going to be a couple of states dropping off in the South West, and a couple of states dropping out in the North Central or what you called the Middle Belt area in which case, if that happens Buhari would not be able to form government at first vote and it would go into a runoff,” he said. But Dr. Chima Amadi, the National Coordinator of the Independent Service Delivery Monitoring Group (ISDMG), which works closely with INEC, said the electoral umpire would not be taken by surprise. “The provision in the constitution does not give INEC enough room to manoeuvre but I think what this INEC does is to prepare for contingencies because the one week is not enough to start preparing and reprinting and all that, amounting to billions of naira, because of that one-week window. “So the constitutional provision is unrealistic; it’s supposed to give room for at least two months so that if it happens that there would be a runoff, INEC can make preparations. But let’s get this thing right, they always prepare for contingencies. But the framers and re-framers of the constitution should envisage a situation whereby INEC should be given enough window to manoeuvre and  avoid waste,” he said. “But we strongly feel that in 2019, there might be a grand coalition that would throw up one person thereby avoiding a runoff; but we are working towards that eventuality,” he added. Spokesman of INEC chairman, Rotimi Oyekanmi, said the Commission has been preparing for any eventuality. “However, there is already a proposed amendment to change this provision of 7 days to a month, which is now awaiting the President’s assent. The proposed amended was informed by the realization that seven days might be insufficient to prepare for another (presidential) election in terms of its sheer logistical requirements,” he said. When no candidate meets the conditions to declared winner, the Constitution provides that However, there is already a proposed amendment to change this provision of 7 days to a month, which is now awaiting the President’s assent. The proposed amended was informed by the realization that seven days might be insufficient to prepare for another (presidential) election in terms of its sheer logistical requirements. Amendment to the Electoral Act The 2019 general elections are a stone’s throw away from now. INEC had on March 9, 2017, announced that the presidential election will hold on February 16, 2019, while governorship and state assembly elections would be conducted on March 2, 2019. However, the Presidency and the National Assembly are locked in controversy over the sequence of elections, a clause that trapped the whole process of tinkering with the Amendment Act 2010, which would have fine-tuned some issues to make the 2019 elections more credible. Analysts believe there will be lacuna that will cast doubt on the integrity of the 2019 elections if the two arms of government do not suspend the mutual suspicion between them. INEC is seen as the biggest victim of the acrimony because it has been trapped for now, making its preparations uncertain. Both chambers of the National Assembly, though dominated by the APC, amended the order of the election. The proposed sequence of elections would make the National Assembly election come first in 2019, followed by governorship, and state houses of assembly, and presidential last. In April, the Abuja Division of the Federal High Court nullified the amendment of Section 25 of the Electoral Act, which was passed in February by the National Assembly. The court, presided by Justice Ahmed Mohammed, ruled that only INEC had the powers to create an election template for the country. The judge also ruled that any attempt by the National Assembly to amend  Section 25 as done by the legislature, would first require an amendment of the constitution. On his part, President Buhari had on March 13 refused assent to the bill, after it was forwarded to his office. He had said the amendments if allowed to pass violate parts of the constitution. But it seems proponents of the issue at the National Assembly are undeterred. After both chambers of the National Assembly stepped down the bill that sought to introduce election sequence in the country on April 18, a new bill to that effect resurfaced in the House of Reps on Thursday, May 31. In the House of Reps, a new bill on the same subject matter sponsored by Kingsley Chinda was introduced. The amendment rejected by President Buhari showed that elections into the 469 Senate and House of Reps seats would be conducted first to be followed by elections of governors and members of state houses of assembly, while presidential election would come last. Meanwhile, the House adopted some of the provisions of a bill that allows the use of smart card only and prohibited the manual register for accreditation during the 2019 general elections. They agreed that elections could be postponed in areas where the smart card reader fails to function. The lawmakers rejected the idea of electronic voting for the entire election, saying Nigeria is not yet ripe for that. Only last week, the House passed for second reading a bill seeking to give the various elections tribunals in the country additional powers. In the new amendments, the election tribunals and courts will have power to declare candidates that score the second highest votes to the winner of an election when the tribunal or court finds that the winner is unqualified from the beginning, among others. At the rate they are going, both chambers are determined to effect the various amendments within the shortest possible time and re-transmit same to President Buhari for assent, the outcome of which is definitely unpredictable. No viable opposition In 2015, there was a viable opposition as evident in how the APC - a product of legacy parties - sprung to prominence more than 20 months to elections. At that time, though the APC had many presidential aspirants such as ex-VP President Atiku Abubakar, ex-governor Rabiu Kwankwaso of Kano, and others, it was evident that the minds of delegates for the presidential primary election in Lagos were duly prepared to support Buhari. Therefore, the APC came out of the convention stronger, to greater extent, a development that put the PDP off-track amidst struggles to find its bearing up till the last day of the election. But the situation is different now, because the major opposition party, the PDP, does not have a common front, just eight months to the biggest contest. A former governor of Jigawa State, Alhaji Sule Lamido, believes he remains the most patriotic member of the PDP, because as a founding member, he never derailed or defected to another party since 1998 when it was formed. A former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, is also in the race and believes his wide network of supporters from across the divide and his stance on re-structuring among other untouchable areas would give him an edge. A former governor of Kano State, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, is also in the race and believes that his “welfarist’ disposition would attract support from the masses. Former Senate President, David Mark, is purportedly being prepared by politicians in the North Central, popularly called the Middle Belt, and are reportedly in touch with the South East and South South where the PDP is strong, to give other candidates, including President Buhari, a good run for their money. Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo of Gombe State is said to be the preferred candidate of PDP governors, and has the active support of Governor Nyesom Wike of Rivers State. A former governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Makarfi, is said to be at peace with himself believing that the magic he deployed to  restore peace in the party after it was put on high gear by ex-governor Ali Modu Sheriff would help him secure the party’s ticket. The founder of Baze University, Senator Datti Baba-Ahmed,  is said to be riding on his youthful advantage and support of some powerful retired military generals, while former Minister of Special Duties Kabiru Turaki, has also thrown his hat into the race as candidate of ex-PDP governors. Some people were insinuating that he is also the candidate of ex- President Jonathan. “The PDP is in trouble because there is no strong man who could bring all of them under one umbrella,” a source in the party said, pun fully intended. Another source said ex-president Jonathan who should have  been the leader of the party had “slept for too long.” Acrimony in APC The  ruling APC is also enveloped in various crises, evident in how it came out weaker from the ward, local government and state congresses. At present, the congresses in about 24 states are being contested and there are fears that the outcome of the national convention of the party, slated for June 23, would make or mar the coalition. This is beside the troubles being stirred by members of the nPDP, led by Alhaji Kawu Baraje. It is argued that no matter their imperfections now, if the likes of Senate President Bukola Saraki, ex-governors Kwankwaso, Aliyu Wamakko, Danjuma Goje, Speaker Yakubu Dogara, Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal and many others could leave the APC, the towering influence they brought to bear in 2015 that led to the success of the party would not be there anymore. Analysts are also of the opinion that the African Democratic Congress (ADC), the platform which ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo found refuge for his Coalition for Nigeria Movement (CNM) might not inflict a collateral damage on others but would cause a serious setback. The argument that the Social Democratic party (SDP) of Chief Olu Falae would now be the beautiful bride of nPDP members in the event their demands were not met, is another issue that is making the 2019 elections unpredictable. The nPDP members will be meeting with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo on Monday but some supporters of President Buhari are already predicting that nothing would work out. The National President of Vote Guard and Awareness for Buhari, Engineer Kelani Mohammed, said nPDP had made up their minds to dump APC, hence the need for the party to forge ahead with other initiatives. He said even if Buhari and the APC would give the nPDP members “heaven and earth”, they would still leave. But the Chairman of the Publicity Committee of the APC convention, who is also Oyo State governor, Abiola Ajimobi, said the crisis trailing the party will be resolved. He assured that with the inroads so far achieved by the Tinubu-led reconciliation committee, the party will  overcome the challenges. Everything that has been said before, and that is being said, however, still does little to make the impending 2019 polls less unpredictable.