The attention around Manchester United midfielder Marouane Fellaini is full on now that his contract has expired. He is free to move wherever he likes and will pocket a sizable fee whereas United will get nothing. Arsenal are the latest club to show a healthy interest and held talks with Marouane on Wednesday to explore a deal. However, Marouane’s demand for a substantial £120,000 a week could be a big problem. The 30-year-old Belgian international has an offer on the table from AC Milan and a one year contract offer from United. Arsenal head coach Unai Emery tried to sign Fellaini when he was managing at Paris Saint-Germain last season and he phoned Fellaini last week to explain that he wants experienced players to work alongside his younger prospects. Arsenal have also spoken with defenders 29-year-old Sokratis Papastathopoulas of Borussia Dortmund and Juventus’ Stephan Lichsteiner who is a ripe old 34- year-old. Although Emery prefers young players he is looking for dressing room leaders to motivate the squad and is placing a lot of his current focus on this. The Real reason Zidan walked out I had an interesting conversation with a Madrid journalist who has strong links inside Real Madrid. He told me that far from a cordial and agreeable resignation from Real, manager Zinedine Zidan quit because of a row over the signing of Chelsea’s Eden Hazard and Manchester United’s David de Gea. Apparantley Zidan and Real President Florentine Perez argued over the club’s summer transfer plans. Perez wanted de Gea and Zidan wanted to keep current goalkeeper Keylor Navas. On the other hand Zidan wanted Hazard but Perez does not. Finally Zidan said, “Okay, I quit. You run the team!” And he was gone. It would be ironic if Zidan joins Chelsea as a replacement for Antonio Conte where, of course, he would manage Hazard. One to watch. Fred just about over the line Jose Mourinho has had a busy week. First he completed the signing of Diogo Dalot in a 17.4million deal. Jose describes the 19-year-old as the best full back prospect in Europe. His signing effectively ends the career of Matteo Darmian at Old Trafford. Second I received a phone call from Manchester yesterday to tell me that Shakhtar Donetsk midfielder Fred has completed a successful medical at Old Trafford and is manager Jose Mourinho’s first summer signing. The paperwork is the only thing to be completed as I write this column. The £35million Brazilian came on as a late substitute for his country’s 2-0 friendly win over Croatia. The deal is 95% complete and Fred Tweeted “Fred is Red”! Liverpool move fast - again! Liverpool are getting good at this transfer business. Striking silently and swiftly they secured AS Monaco’s Brazilian defensive back Fabinho for £39.3 million following the Champions League final. Now they have caught many clubs off guard by swooping for Belgian club KAA Gent’s Moses Simon. The deal isn’t done yet but several Premier League clubs have been left trailing behind Liverpool’s transfer speed. Simon is valued at around £10million. He is a Nigerian born regular wide man who will back up both Mo Salah and Sadio Mane. He is a versatile player who can move across the front line with speed and agility in much the same way as Mane. Last season he started 20 games and scored five goals. Unfortunately, due to a thigh injury, Moses will miss the World Cup in Russia starting next week and Nigerian coach Gernot Rohr said, “The test we conducted on him showed that he needs at least three or four weeks more to recover from the injury.” Real play it cool - for once Spanish club Real Madrid are never shy when they want to pursue and sign a player. When they wanted to sign Luka Modric, Gareth Bale and Cristiano Renaldo they unsettled the players at their clubs constantly making contact, constantly putting strong press reports into the media and talking big money in public. Players become interested and then obsessed with signing for the Madrid giants. However, that is not going to be their approach in trying to prise Spurs manager Mauricio Pochettino away from White Hart Lane. Instead of their usual aggression they are taking a more diplomatic route, quietly making sure that Mauricio is aware that he is wanted in Spain without making a big fuss. The reason is that they do not want to be embarrassed by a rejection. The odds are against him moving from North London and he demonstrated his commitment to Spurs by signing a new five-year-deal worth £42.5million last month. In Daniel Levy the Madrid board have come up against a Chief Executive who is as tough to negotiate with as they are themselves. Real are also keeping tabs on Chelsea’s Antonio Conte, former player Guti and even Arsene Wenger is being considered. Martial for Spurs I received a phone call yesterday telling me that it is very likely Spurs will move to sign Manchester United’s Anthony Martial next week. The 22-year-old has not been chosen for France in the World Cup so the deal could be conducted quickly. Martial is blaming his lack of playing time as a major reason he has not been selected for his national squad and that levels his frustration at manager Jose Mourinho. United want £50million for the 22-year-old and Spurs are hopeful an agreement will be made. Shaqiri for Everton? As I reported previously, relegated Stoke City are about to lose some of their best players. Xherdan Shaqiri, probably the best of them, has said that he is not interested in playing in the lower Championship League. Everton and Liverpool have already put their hands up and are trying to negotiate with Stoke to take Shaqiri to the north east. I have heard rumours that Stoke might let him go for £12million to cut their wage bill. Southampton manager Mark Hughes has also expressed interest. Proof Premier League is the tops Almost three in four players performing at this year’s World Cup will come from European clubs and the Premier League is supplying 130 of them which is 49 more than the next country which is Spain. 34 English clubs will be represented in Russia compared with 22 German clubs and 21 from Spain. Manchester City leads the way with 16 players on duty for their national squads - one more than Real Madrid and two more than Barcelona. Chelsea and Spurs are tied with Paris St-Germain who are sending 12 players each and this is one Clubs fight over Lascelles Spurs and Chelsea look like going head-to-head over the signature of Newcastle’s Jamaal Lascelles with Everton also in the mix. The 24-year-old centre half is wanted by Chelsea to replace David Luiz who could be moving to Sporting Lisbon in Portugal. Spurs want Jamaal to replace Toby Alderweireld who is Manchester United bound if things go Jose Mourinho’s way. Negotiations for Toby have been difficult since Spurs put a £55million tag on their star defender but United are still trying to negotiate. Whereas Newcastle do not want to sell their prize asset they have also received interest from Everton who have bid £30million but that is way below the £45million wanted by Newcastle.