President Muhammmadu Buhari says reforming a nation like Nigeria “pushed into near decay on account of corruption” comes with teething pains. He, however, noted that these pains were temporary, adding the All Progressives Congress (APC) administration he was privileged to lead “is beholden to the ordinary Nigerians and will leave no stone unturned to make their security, welfare and happiness our priority.” The president said this last night in his Sallah message following the announcement of the sighting of the new moon of Shawwal by the Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, declaring today Friday, June, 15 as Sallah day. The Sultan said the new crescent was sighted in Borno, Sokoto, Kaduna, Plateau, Kano, Nasarawa, among others. Buhari, according to a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Malam Garba Shehu, thanked Nigerians for their patience and assured them that their sacrifices would not be in vain. President Buhari stressed the importance of putting the virtues of Islam into practice beyond the fasting season. Congratulating Muslims on completing “this spiritually significant month of sacrifice”, he urged them to reflect on the importance of Ramadan in becoming good ambassadors of Islam at all times. The president said “religion should be the moral compass for all believers in their public and personal lives,” adding that “if people allow the teachings of their religions to influence their conducts, problems such as corruption, which diverts public funds to private pockets, would have been eliminated in the society.” Buhari, regretted, however, that “selfishness and greed have overcome people’s conscience so much that they don’t have moral inhibitions in the pursuit of their greed.” According to him, “It is impossible to separate morality from religion, and removing this connection encourages corrupt leaders and other exploiters to commit atrocities against the society.” He said he always wondered why any true believer, be they politicians, civil servants or businessmen, would seek to make profits from the misfortunes of others. President Buhari urged ordinary Nigerians to stop glorifying thieves by treating them with disdain for bringing hardships to others. He enjoined religious leaders to always pray for peace and unity in the country and avoid making inflammatory utterances that endanger peace or promote conflicts. The president also appealed to fellow citizens to forgive one another and embrace peace. He, in this respect, lauded the families of recipients of national honours for showing good examples to Nigerians and urged our country men and women to copy their good examples. Saraki, Ekweremadu urge sustained prayers Senate President Bukola Saraki and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu have called for sustained prayers for peace in the country after the Ramadan fast. Saraki in a statement by his Special Adviser on Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, to commemorate the Eid-el-Fitr celebrations, said it was imperative for Muslims to utilise this period to pray fervently for peace and unity in the country. “We have just ended a month long fast thus paving way for the Eid-el-fitr celebrations. These two periods are such times that the Almighty Allah enjoined us to ask for his blessings. We should therefore use the opportunity to pray for the country and its leaders,” he said. Ekweremadu in a statement by his media aide, Uche Anichukwu urged Muslims to continue to pray for the nation, especially towards the successful conduct of the 2019 general elections. He also enjoined Muslim faithful to remain true to the teachings of Islam imbibed during Ramadan even after the holy month. Reflect on Ramadan lessons - Dogara On his part, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, enjoined Muslims to sustain the lessons of Ramadan and replicate same in their daily lives for a better society. He also called on the Ummah not to be carried away by only the pageantry of the Sallah celebration, but to use the occasion for sober reflection and extend gestures and hands of support to the needy in the society, as well as to pray against the current security and economic situation of the country. Mark calls for peaceful Co- existence A former Senate President, Senator David Mark has urged Muslims to use the period of Eid El-Fitr celebration to promote peaceful co-existence in the country. Senator Mark in a goodwill message to Nigerians for this year’s Eid el-Fitr said more than ever before the country needs men and women of goodwill to promote peace and unity. Senator Mark stated that in spite of the daunting challenges especially insecurity, Nigerians must come together to provide a common solution to the plethora of problems confronting the Nation. He urged citizens to continue to uphold the sanctity of our brotherhood and good neighbourliness as a panacea for peace to reign. CAN seeks partnership with NSCIA for peace The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has rejoiced with Nigerian Muslims over the successful completion of the Ramadan period. A statement by spokesman to CAN president, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, expresses determination and commitment to collaborate with the leadership of the Nigeria Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA) under the leadership of its President and Sultan of Sokoto, Alhaji Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar, to promote peaceful co-existence among adherents of the nation’s two major religions and work towards unity, peace and progress of the country. “In celebrating the end of the Ramadan, CAN is hopeful that our political leaders at all levels will cease all discriminatory practices on the basis of religious, political or ethnic differences. Since Christianity and Islam preach unity, we pray that the Federal Government, through security agencies, will find means of resolving rampant killings by Boko Haram terrorists, criminal herdsmen and bandits. Christians all over Nigerians congratulate all Nigerian Muslims, among others, and wish them a happy Eid el-Fitr,” CAN said. APC, DPC felicitate with Muslims The ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has felicitated with Muslim Ummah on the celebration of Eid el-Fitr, which marks the end of Ramadan. “With all the love, blessings and peace on this joyous occasion, we wish Muslims and indeed all Nigerians a happy Eid, and may all our good deeds be accepted by Almighty Allah (SWT),” the APC National Publicity Secretary, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi, said yesterday in a statement issued in Abuja. The party expressed confidence in its ability to deliver on promises to the electorate through on-going implementation of the policies of the President Muhammadu Buhari-led APC administration. “With your continuous prayers, support and cooperation, the on-going task of building a new Nigeria for our progress, peace, unity and prosperity will be achieved,” the statement said. In his felicitation, the National Chairman of the Democratic Peoples Congress (DPC) Rev. Olusegun Peters, said the month of Ramadan was indeed a period of sober reflection, rededication and renewal of faith in Allah and the fatherland. “DPC enjoins the Muslim faithful to use the occasion of this year’s Eid-el Fitr celebrations to pray for peace, progress and unity of the nation,” Peters said. Makarfi wants efforts on tackling insecurity intensified Former governor of Kaduna State, Senator Ahmed Mohammed Makarfi enjoined Nigerians to seize the opportunity provided by the Sallah season to intensify prayers for a speedy resolution of all problems facing Nigeria. Makarfi in a Sallah message to mark the Eid el-Fitr, said as Nigeria grapples with insecurity and other socioeconomic challenges, the relatively well-to-do should look out for less privileged friends, brothers and sisters to share with them the joys of the moment. In the statement signed by his media aide, Mukhtar Zubairu Sirajo, the former governor called on Muslims not to lose sight of the lessons of Ramadan.