Detectives from the Lagos State Police Command are on the trail of one Pastor, Chief Oni, for allegedly sending out fake security alert and extorting money from members of the public. The police said that Oni is the founder of the Chosen Ministry Church, situated at No. 24, Association Avenue, Apapa-Oshodi expressway, Ijeshatedo. Two members of Chief Oni fake security group have been arrested for allegedly extorting money from members of the public dressed in Police branded T-Shirts. Those arrested were idenrified as Jumoke Mutairu, 45, and Uzoma Johnson, 29. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, identified Jumoke as the leader of the gang. Edgal said that during investigations the suspects alleged that they were trained for six months by one Chief Johnson O. Oni. Edgal said the suspects identified Chief Oni as the founder, of the Chosen Ministry Church, situated at No. 24, Association Avenue, Apapa-Oshodi expressway, Ijeshatedo He said: “On Wednesday, June 20, 2018 at about 1.30 pm there was a public outcry that a group of persons cladded in black T-Shirts, black berets with police insignia,  were going from door to door extorting money from the public under the guise of security alert. In the light of this, the DPO Alakara Division swiftly mobilized his operatives to the scene and arrested one Jumoke Mutairu, age 45  of No. 10, Isiba Street, Itire. Also arrested was one Uzoma Johnson  age 29 of No. 15, Avana Street, Off Bayo Oyewole Street, Okota” “During interrogation, the suspects confessed to the crime and revealed that they have been in the business for about 15 years now. They also claimed to have been trained for six months by one Chief Johnson O. Oni, the founder, Chosen Ministry Church, situated at No. 24, Association Avenue, Apapa-Oshodi expressway, Ijeshatedo.” The Lagos State Police boss revealed that exhibits recovered from the suspect include black T-shirt; black beret with police insignia; the sum of N4,300 and assorted document/certificates suspected to be fakes. He said that efforts were on to arrest the fleeing founder and pastor believed to be their alter-ego.