Five policemen attached to the Ondo state police command have been arrested for allegedly invading the hostels of student of the state-owned Adekunle Ajasin University, Akungba Akoko (AAUA) during a night party. The arrested policemen, according the spokesman of the command Mr Femi Joseph included one Inspector and four others on other ranks. Some students of the university had alleged at the weekend that men of the state police command, attached to the Special Anti-Robbery Squad (SARS), invaded their hostels, beat and injured some of them. Narrating their ordeal, the students said the policemen stormed the hostel around 4am when some of them were about  leaving the hostel  after a party organised by one of the students. One of the students told newsmen that they were brutalized and injured while some other students were whisked away. He explained that the policeman invaded the hostel in a commando-like manner on the pretense of searching for some cult members. According to him, the policemen stormed the hostel as if they were going to war. They broke the doors, burglaries and ceilings to gain entrance. "The students initially did not open the door for them, thinking the policemen were armed robbers but the policemen started breaking the doors to enter into the rooms of the hostel,” said one of the students. "When they entered, they started beating everybody. Many students were beaten mercilessly, but some students who gave them bribe were released while those who couldn’t bribe were whisked away," he added. However, the state police spokesman who confirmed the incident said the Commissioner of Police, Mr. Gbenga Adeyanju, has ordered full investigation into the matter. He said five of the policemen who went for the operation were being interrogated by the command to know their level of involvement in the “illegal duty.” "Three students that were arrested has been released and the CP has ordered full investigation and after the investigation if the policemen were found guilty, they would definitely pay for it; we don't allow indiscipline in this command,” Joseph said. "I also want to use this medium to call on any of the students who were brutalised to come to my office with evidence and I promised we won't spare any officer found culpable,” he added. He said they need the evidence to prosecute the officers for the offence, saying “any crime without witness and evidence is dead on arrival.”