Many prominent personalities have joined the race for various positions ahead of the national convention of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) scheduled to hold on Saturday at the Eagle Square in Abuja. Findings by the Daily Trust revealed of the over 20 available positions in the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party, only three of the serving members did not purchase forms to seek reelection. And despite the endorsement that some of the NWC members had received either from the presidency, their zones or governors of their states, some party members had procured  forms to challenge them at the convention. So far, 179 aspirants had picked the nomination forms to participate at the elective convention that will produce new party leaders at the national level. For the position of the national chairman, the aspirants are Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, Chief Clement Ebri, Prof. Oserheimen Osunbor.  Chief Ibrahim Emokpaire who had purchased the form for the chairmanship had lately withdrawn from the race to support Oshiomhole. The race is already seen as a done deal for Oshiomhole who had received the endorsement of President Muhammadu Buhari, the APC governors, the national leader of the party, Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu among others. For the office of the deputy national chairman of the party for the Northern region, Alhaji Farouk Adamu Aliyu from Jigawa State is out to challenge Sen. Lawali Shuaibu   who currently occupies the seat. For the office of the deputy national chairman (South), Otunba Niyi Adebayo is poised to take over from Engr. Segun Oni who recently contested the APC governorship primary election in Ekiti State. Alhaji Mai Mala Buni who was also endorsed by President Buhari would also be challenged by Architect Waziri Bulama, Alhaji Kashim Imam and Barr. Mohammed Bello. At least four people have indicated interest to challenge the National Organising Secretary of the party, Sen. Osita Izunaso. They include Barr. Emma Ibediro, Hon. Chidi Nwogu, Dr. C.C Osuala and Dr. Betty Nnamdi. The National Publicity Secretary of the party, Malam Bolaji Abdullahi from Kwara State, would be challenged by Abubakar Sidiq Usman from Kogi State. The National Woman Leader, Hajiya Ramatu Tijjani Aliyu also from Kogi State, would be challenged by Hajiya Salamatu Baiwa and Hajiya Fatima Adams. The likes of  Jibrilla Madu Gadzama,  Abubakar Barde,  Sadiq S. Abubakar and Mohammed Abdullahi (Nurain) have all indicated interest in the position of national youth leader of the party. The National Chairman of the party, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun, the National Treasurer, Alhaji Bala Mohammed Gwagwarwa and the National Legal Adviser, Dr. Muiz Banire did not obtain forms to seek reelection.