The Kaduna State Internal Revenue Service (KADIRS) said on Tuesday  that it would prosecute owners of 56 properties in the state over unpaid  ground rent. Executive Chairman of the service, Mukhtar Ahmed made the disclosure  in Kaduna at the launch of a digital application that integrates all the  63 revenue generating agencies in the state. He said that a task force set up by the service a month ago uncovered the properties owing from N20 million and above. “We will start our enforcement with them to show the seriousness of  the state government in ensuring that every property owner in the state  pay his or her ground rent as at when due,” the chairman said. According to him, under the Land Use Act, all property owners are  expected to pay their ground rent in the first week of January each  year. “But we are magnanimous enough to serve the affected property owners  with demand notices; we have sent the first one as well as the final  notices; the next step is to take the defaulters to court. “The state’s tax law has provided that after 30 days of notice and no  response, we can take the defaulters to court to retrieve what is due  to the government as ground rent, “Ahmed said. The revenue service boss noted that Kaduna as an old city has some  property records dating to as far back as 1914, with some passing  through 50 owners but without proper documentation. “Is a bit of challenge for us to get the real owners of such  properties, but we have decided to begins with whoever lives in such  property to lead us to the owner, so we would collect what is due to the  state government.” On the digital platform called Cashworx, Ahmed said it was to bring  all tax payers on one platform and link them up with the banks for easy  payments. He said that property and business owners in the state are not paying  their due tax because of the absence of a comprehensive record that  detailed their profile and properties owned. “But with this digital interface, KDIRS will be able to profile and  get the actual properties of individuals in the state and relate it with  the tax they are paying to determine the gap. “An individual will own 20 properties in Kaduna, but will declare one  property and pay a meager amount, when in reality he has more than 20  houses. “This information sharing interface, using the Tax Identification  Number as common identifier, will profile and show us that Mr X is doing  business with KADGIS, Motor Licence Office and Ministry of Commerce,  and the Mr X has 20 houses, 10 cars and two businesses as the case may  be. “It will aggregate all the income of tax payer and asked him or her  to pay the appropriate tax due to the state government,” the chairman  explained. According to him, the development will improve revenue generation and collection in the state. He said that the platform was inaugurated, with Kaduna Geographic  Information System, the first to be integrated onto the platform. “Agencies that do not have the capacity, the state revenue service  will deploy the needed application for them to come on board, “he added. Also speaking, the Head of Geographic Information Service, Anis  Halabi described the initiative as a milestone, adding that it would  enhance revenue generation in the state. (NAN)