Saudi Arabia’s first batch of women car accident inspectors are  training to respond to incidents involving female drivers, local media  reported on Friday. Report says Saudi females will be allowed to drive in the  conservative Muslim kingdom starting on Sunday when a decades-old ban  ends. Forty women hired by private insurance company Najm attended a celebration on Thursday in the capital Riyadh. All of them wore black abayas, the traditional loose-fitting robes,  and most covered their faces with the conservative niqab as they lined  up to receive symbolic diplomas. Just days before women are set to hit the road, although, it was  unclear when the trainees will be ready to start their new jobs and how  they will navigate mixed-gender environments in a country where strict  separation rules usually prevent women from interacting with unrelated  men. Sweeping social reforms pushed by Crown Prince Mohammed bin Salman,  twinned with an economic overhaul aimed at ending dependency on oil  exports, are chipping away at traditional norms. Much of the kingdom’s overwhelmingly young population supports the  reforms, but many Saudis are concerned that changes are happening too  fast and fear they could provoke a backlash from religious conservatives  once seen as dominant. Social opening has also been accompanied by a crackdown on dissent,  including the arrests over the past month of more than a dozen  activists, who had previously campaigned for the right to drive. When King Salman decreed an end to the world’s only remaining ban on  women drivers in September, he gave the government nine months to  prepare for introducing women drivers to the country’s roads, which are  among the world’s deadliest. The Ministry of Interior has been preparing for the day women take  the wheel, opening driving schools and setting up locations for women to  exchange their foreign licenses. They worked with Najm to prepare the female inspectors. They also plan to open holding cells for female traffic violators,  but will hold them in juvenile detention centers in the meantime. Trainee Tahani al-Ameeri, 35, said she was excited to start working as an inspector in the eastern city of Kohbar. “There is fear at first, but little by little the situation will improve and God willing, this will be a good thing for women. “The female inspectors will be called to the scene of the accident  when one of those involved is insured, not those involving injuries, and  when at least one party is a woman,’’ Maha al-Shneifi, Najm’s  communication director, said. Shneifi said that they have yet to finish their training and it is  unclear how many female inspectors will be hired in coming years, adding  that it will depend on demand. (Reuters/NAN)