President Muhammadu Buhari described the adoption of consensus as a first option for the Saturday’s national convention of  the All Progressives Congress as commendable, saying the process had led to a lot of healing and cohesion across the states and the zones. He said where elections were inevitable, he had been assured that the process adopted would result in clear and undisputed results. Speaking at the party’s national convention held at Eagle Square in Abuja, Buhari assured that despite a few lingering issues with the congresses in some states, the party would emerge stronger after the convention. He said the unresolved cases the party had were the price that had to be paid for success as everyone wants to be associated with a winning team. He said having been following the preparations leading to the convention, he must commend the convention committee under the leadership  of Jigawa State Governor Badaru Abubakar for providing a level playing field and instilling confidence in both aspirants and delegates with their thorough approach and adherence to transparency. “Again I am appealing to all contestants to keep faith with the party,” the president stated. President Buhari implored all aggrieved members of the APC to keep faith with the party until things were put right. President Buhari specifically appealed to all to put the party ahead of personal considerations and accept the outcome of the convention in good faith. “You are all important to our party’s progress and all must come together to ensure success in the forthcoming polls so as to enable us to continue the good work we have been doing for our fellow Nigerians,” he said. He said it was his pleasure to address the delegates at the convention which was the first ‘since we rode on its glorious platform to a victorious political outing in 2015. Congratulations again to all who worked or contributed to our success.” He acknowledged the delegates’ presence and congratulated all those who had emerged from the wards, local government and state congresses from the 36 States of the federation and the FCT “gathered here today (Saturday) as the party’s highest ranking constitutional organ, to elect and usher in a new leadership for the party at the national level. He commended all the delegates from across the country for their sacrifice and patience, “travelling all the way from your different destinations and waiting in inclement weather, as it has been raining all the day. Thank you for your commitment.” Buhari also thanked the outgoing National Executives of the party, especially those who did not offer themselves for re-election at the convention for their tireless efforts in securing victory for the party at the last elections and managing the success thereafter. “I thank you all for being here and congratulate the new National Executive to be elected shortly. God bless Federal Republic of Nigeria, God bless our party,” Buhari concluded.