In April, 2018, MIT Press released the book, “Fighting Corruption is Dangerous: The Story Behind the Headlines,” written by Dr. Ngozi Okonjo-Iweala, one of Nigeria’s former finance ministers. In the book, Okonjo-Iweala spoke about arm-twisting that went with budget passing at the National Assembly during the Goodluck Jonathan era. She cited a 2015 incidence with the National Assembly allegedly coercing the executive arm to part with an additional N17 billion before the budget was passed that year. In reaction to this, Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Hon. Femi Gbajabiamila, said he was unaware that lawmakers took any bribe before passing the 2015 budget. Gbajabiamila, who at the time was the Minority Leader in the 7th Assembly, also said lawmakers had a running battle with Okonjo-Iweala and her aides, over the budget because they had inserted their own projects to the detriment of some lawmakers. The disagreement led to the lawmakers demanding that many projects be sited in their constituencies as well. Speaking to the media on the subject Gbajabiamila, said, “It was a sour point in the relationship between the former minister and members at that time. “The unfair arrangement by Okonjo-Iweala and her aides made lawmakers demand that many projects be sited in their constituencies as well, being the elected representatives of the people. “However, my hunch is that being an election year, members might have wanted several projects sited in their constituencies so that they could have something to campaign on. “It is wrong to portray that members were given money for passage of the budget,” he said, adding that it was wrong for the former minister to tag it a ‘bribe.’ Okonjo-Iweala, who is the current board chair of Gavi, took to Twitter to respond to the allegations. She said, “It has come to my attention that mischief-makers are again trying to distort what is written in my book for their own political purposes.” Stressing the need for all to be informed on the contents of the book before raising questions, she said, “One more time, it is important that people read the book for themselves. In the case of the N17billion, the book does not talk of bribe. It indicates that lawmakers increased the budget by N17billion and we had to accept that to move on; hence, the term “price to pay”.” The former Managing Director of the World Bank, explained that, “The reason for discussing what happened is that this approach needs to change. The country must clear up and clarify its budget process for the future to improve.” Picking holes at queries raised by Gbajabiamila, Okonjo-Iweala said, “Those like Hon Gbajabiamiala trying to introduce lies that myself and my aides put in our own projects and lawmakers were fighting with me on that basis, are playing their usual cynical games and Nigerians are tired of that! “Lies obscure the country’s problems and do not allow us to improve. There were and there still are politicians in the National Assembly trying to do the right thing. The book also points that out. “Such well-meaning legislators should not allow their strident colleagues to twist matters and divert attention from the need to improve the country’s budget process so our young people can see a better side of their country.” Okonjo-Iweala, at an event prior to the launch of her book, explained the motivation to write it. “When I set out to write, I knew I was going to write a book because I wanted to write a sequel to my first book  ‘Reforming the Unreformable: Lessons from Nigeria.” She said, “I actually set out to write volume two but when I sat down, what came out from my laptop was different. I found myself putting down the story of what happened to my mother and that meant that somewhere deep inside … and as I was doing it I was very emotional, very upset and I realised how upset I was at what had happened and in many senses still I am.”