The Delta State chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has dissociated itself from the judgement secured by the Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and Chief Great Ogboru-led group of APC members in the state. The State Publicity Secretary, Delta APC, Moses Kamanya, said yesterday in a statement that they learnt of a June 28, 2018 consent judgement in respect of a suit filed by Odjebobo Desire Onoyefeme and Lyndon L.O.I Ugbome against the APC National Chairman and the APC National Working Committee with Suit No.: FHC/ABJ/CS/509/8. The suit was secured by the Senator Ovie Omo-Agege and Chief Great Ogboru-led group of APC members in Delta State. “The purport of the consent judgment is to accord legitimacy to the Wards and LGA Executives elected at the parallel congresses conducted by the Agege/Ogboru group which were earlier adjudged illegal by the Chief John Oyegun-led NWC (National Working Committee) who actually conducted, supervised and approved the outcome of the recently conducted congresses of the APC nationwide. “The attempt to procure this consent judgment came to our notice and that of the APC NWC on June 12, 2018. The then-NWC found that officers of the Legal Department in APC without its knowledge, directive, consent and approval acted in connivance with its appointed legal counsel to draw up terms of settlement proposed by the plaintiffs that were acting on behalf of the Agege/Ogboru group. “The NWC immediately debriefed the counsel and appointed a new one Messrs Chief J. K. Gadzama (SAN) in his place, with the instruction to terminate the process of the consent judgment and purported terms of settlement as they were not authorized nor did they emanate from the NWC,” Kamanya said. He said that they leant that among the first actions taken by the new National Chairman of the party, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, was to withdraw the Messrs Chief J. K. Gadzama, who had the brief of the erstwhile NWC to terminate the purported consent judgment process and appoint a new counsel, Messrs Adeniyi Michael Akintola (SAN), presumably with instruction to pursue and secure the erstwhile unauthorized consent judgment in order to award, through court, the Wards and LGAs Executives to the Agege/Ogboru group.