The National Assembly said yesterday it altered the 2018 budget proposal submitted by President Muhammadu Buhari last year in order to correct regional imbalances. Reacting to Buhari’s remarks that the legislature made massive reductions from some key projects in the budget, the spokesmen of both chambers, Senator Aliyu Sabi (APC, Niger) and Abdulrazak Namdas (APC, Adamawa) said the president was not properly briefed on the matter. In a joint press conference in Abuja yesterday, they said: “Adjustments and reductions in the locations, costs and number of projects approved were made in order to address geopolitical imbalances that came with the executive proposal. The introduction of new projects was done to ensure the promotion of the principles of federal character as contained in Section 14, subsection 3 of the 1999 Constitution as amended. “It is our firm belief that if the president had been properly briefed by his appointees, he would not have raised most of the concerns that he did in his remarks at the budget signing. It was stated that the legislature made cuts amounting to N347bn which were meant for 4,700 projects. Again, these reductions of N347bn were made from low priority areas to higher priority areas to support the generation of employment for our youth by MSMEs. …Presidency hits back The Presidency last night chided the National Assembly for justifying its alteration of the 2018 budget. President Muhammmadu Buhari had while signing the budget Wednesday said lawmakers made cuts amounting to N347bn in the allocations to 4,700 projects he submitted for consideration and introduced 6,403 projects of their own amounting to N578 billion. Presidential spokesman Femi Adesina, in a statement, chided the legislature for cutting allocations to important national projects and distorting the budget to further increase their allocation for constituency projects. Adesina clarified that throughout the budget consideration process, the executive, through the Ministry of Budget and National Planning, was in touch with the National Assembly.