The U.S. Ambassador to Nigeria Stuart Symington, on Wednesday urged  Nigerians to unite in the fight against insecurity irrespective of their  religious and ethnic differences. Symington, gave the advice in his address at the 242nd Independence  anniversary celebration been organised by the U.S. Embassy in Abuja. He decried unsuspected killings of innocent people and insecurity which has also affected the nation’s development process. He therefore urged Nigerians to unite no matter their religious and  ethnic differences, to find a lasting solution to the problem of  security. Symington said “Nigeria’s leaders and citizens have it in their power  to make this killings stop now, if you are united in religions,  occupation and all faiths. ‘‘When you act together with sincerity, high purpose and sustained efforts, you will end this violence. ‘‘This is not a goal, this is the Cup itself and it will mean the World for you to lift it high. ‘‘Security that lasts depends on strong citizens who support each other and their governments. ‘‘It is as much a product of trust forged by opportunities shared and  rules fairly enforced on level playing fields, as it is the product of  force wisely applied to answer threats.’’ He further advised Nigerian leaders to mentor young people in the course of nation building process to promote national growth. According to him, “we will start with calling on our diplomatic  colleagues to reach out to 170, 000 persons in Young African Leaders  Initiative network on our line of mentoring site.’’ In a remark, the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Geoffrey Onyeama,  said that Nigeria and U.S. relations began since the nation’s  independence on October 1, 1960. Onyeama, represented by Amb. Modupe Quist, Chief of Protocol of the  Ministry of Foreign Affairs, urged the U.S. to support Nigeria in the  area of security, to ensure sustainable growth. According to Onyeama, the relationship between the U.S. and Nigeria has remained cordial since our independence. ‘‘As the U.S. celebrates her independence in history; I am confident  that the strong and existing friendship between our countries will  continue to be harness. ‘‘We express our profound appreciation to the American government for  assistance to Nigeria over the years especially, in area of security  towards fights against terrorism. ‘‘We look forward to your continued support through construction and  rehabilitation of internally displaced persons camps, humanitarian  assistance and fight against terrorism in the north – east,’’ Onyeama  said. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the U.S. Independence  Day celebration was adopted by the Continental Congress on July 4, 1776.  (NAN)