Nasarawa State branch of Miyetti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN) has accused the military of extra judicial killings of Fulani herders and hundreds of cattle in Nasarawa and Benue states. The police in Nasarawa State have confirmed the killings. MACBAN Chairman in Nasarawa State, Muhammed Hussaini, told journalists in Lafia yesterday that troops under ‘Operations Whirl Wind Stroke’ stormed Fulani settlements in Keana LGA, killing seven herders and over 120 cows on Tuesday. Hussaini said the same military two weeks ago also attacked another Fulani settlement in Doma LGA where they killed two Fulani herders and over 300 cattle. “We believe these attacks were carried out deliberately by some bad eggs within the military to dislodge Fulani herders from Nasarawa State,” he said Hussaini added, “When we received the reports of the attack from the survivors we reported the matter to the state Police Command and Department of State Service (DSS) to investigate the incident. We want know the motive behind these new style of terrorising our people.” He appealed to the leadership of Nigeria Army to investigate “these ungodly acts perpetrated by their officers and men.” Sources within the boundary settlement told Daily Trust that the raid on Fulani settlements followed the alleged killing of three military men in the areas. Meanwhile, the Nasarawa State Police Command has confirmed the killings of six Fulani herders in a military raid in Keana. The acting Police Public Relation Officer, in the state, ASP Ismail Usman, said the command received information that the military personnel from Benue carried out the operation that led to the killing of six people suspected to be Fulani herders. “The command is aware of the incident that took place in Keana local government area of the state. I can confirm to you that our men went to the scene of the incident and recovered six dead bodies killed by the military in the area.” Usman added that the command had already deployed its personnel to Keana local government area of the state to avert any possible crisis or breaking down of law and order.