Two persons were shot in the course of a gun battle between the police and bandits along the Birnin Gwari – Kaduna road on Friday morning. One of the persons shot died while the other has been taken to a hospital. The driver of the vehicle and a woman were abducted and taken to the bush. The two persons were said to be passengers of a vehicle which was traveling from Kaduna to Birnin Gwari at around 6:30 am. Police public relations officer, Mukhtar Hussaini Aliyu when contacted told our corespondent that the incident involved two Golf cars that were stopped by the bandits. He said it was in the course of trying to rescue the passengers by the police that a gun battle ensued and two people were shot. He said the police have continued to patrol the area to rescue the abducted persons and ensure secuirty in the area. The incident occurred at Kwanar-Tsauni between Udawa and Labi. But a driver, Mohammed Kabir, who said he later drove to the scene said another incident happened around 10:30 am. He said the armed bandits managed to stop three other vehicles that came after the first one and led all the passengers and the drivers including women and children into the bush. He said as security patrol was alerted and they moved towards the area, the bandits relocated to another location from where they stopped two other vehicles and abducted the drivers and the passengers as well before they retreated in the bush. Kabir said about 25 persons were abducted as all the vehicles were filled to capacity. "We have been having these types of cases but we have not seen anything like what happened today. “Our suspicion is that because the secuirty agencies have concentrated on the Birnin Gwari – Funtua axis, the bandits have chosen to relocate their operational to the Kaduna road "We appeal to the government to take the same measures as the one it has taken on the Funtua road so that things would return to normal," he said. Our correspondent also learnt that the abductors have made phone contact with the NURTW in Birnin Gwari and are demanding for N5 million.