The Special Adviser to the President and Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme, Prof. Charles Dokubo, on Saturday, gave the assurance of prompt payment of monthly stipends and provision of other welfare packages for ex-Niger Delta agitators and their leaders. Dokubo who stated this while addressing second and third phase leaders of ex-agitators in the Amnesty Programme at a meeting in Abuja, said this was vital for the sustenance of the prevailing peace and security in the region to enhance development. Dokubo who was saddened by complaints of anomalies caused by previous management of the Amnesty Office in the payment of monthly stipends to ex-agitators and placement of delegates for vocational and educational programmes, expressed his resolve to breathe fresh air into the Amnesty Programme and drive it for the benefit of bonafide beneficiaries. “Today, I am meeting with you one on one. I will speak with every one of you and if you feel agitated by any step I have taken, please tell me. We are going to rectify things; we are going to have all the collective views of those who have gathered here. I know that you are not the only commanders, but I strongly believe that if you go away from here there is something you will take home with you; you will take home to your friends and also those who are in your command that this is what I have said and this is the way we are going to approach it. I believe that with you, we are going to move this region forward”. He urged leaders of ex-agitators not to promote parochial interests, but to work with the Federal Government in the interest of the Niger Delta people by striving to sustain the ideals of the Programme. The meeting which had over 70 leaders of Niger Delta ex-agitators in attendance was held at the Abuja Sheraton Hotel and Towers. “Let us do particular projects in the Niger Delta that will live after us; let us not go into pipeline busting, because these pipelines are located in our region where the environmental impact would be felt. But your complaints on issues of documentation and others will be looked into," Dokubo assured. 