At a forum of northern and southern leaders, which held penultimate week, I was invited to make a presentation on the causes and solutions to the spate of killings in Nigeria. My presentation was to last between 10 to 15 minutes. Unfortunately, when I was called up to speak, I was informed that I had one minute to make the presentation as the organisers were pressured for time. I had to rearrange my thoughts within that one minute. As I started laying out the outlines of my thoughts, I was told that my time was up. The result was that what I intended to put out, starting from a historical point about national security and an analysis of the culture of the Fulani tribal group, had the effect of portraying me as denigrating my brothers of the Fulani extraction. That was not my intention. I thought that if I had a little more room to waggle, I would have proceeded to the strengths of the tribal group, from which we would draw out solutions to the crisis of killings. My aim was to put the spate of killings in Nigeria today in the proper historical perspectives while proffering enduring solutions to the spiraling indiscriminate killings across the country, giving my insights into the menace in Zamfara State. After the event, a number of young Fulani compatriots met me as I walked out of the hall. Expectedly, they did not have kind words for me. For a proper understating, a historical excursion is necessary. It is important to point out that because herdsmen are widely believed to be mainly of the Fulani stock, there should be a discussion on the culture and world view of this ethnic group and others. I believe there should be a fuller understanding of the problems that assail us as a nation. This is not in the least intended as a referendum on the culture and traditions of the Fulani, but because, rightly or wrongly, this ethnic group has featured rather prominently in the discussions about the spiral of killings, whether as a group or by a component part of it, or hijacked by a criminal syndicate. Causes of armed banditry The factors responsible for the current spate of killings, cattle rustling, armed robbery, kidnappings, raping and maiming of innocent citizens in rural areas are as multifaceted as they are multidimensional. Banditry, at least in the colours we now see it, as typified by the killings in Zamfara, began following the depleting of Fulani-owned herds of cattle. Initially, this depletion was consequent upon recurring payment of large sums of money for the settlement of cases, and to the police to bail their children or siblings who, while herding cattle, were involved in clashes with farmers, or in clashes among themselves. The native courts and the police realised the aversion for detention or imprisonment by the Fulani and capitalised on this to threaten detention or imprisonment at the slightest sign of disagreements in order to extort. This aversion itself is a result of the cultural belief that being deprived of the freedom to move about by any kind of imprisonment or detention attracts calamity to the family. It is a belief steeped in culture. Rather than imprison a member of his family for two years, he prefers his two children are killed because he is certain that no matter how long it takes, he will revenge in a larger proportion. The belief in most Hausa communities is that this extortion by native authorities and the police is the immediate cause of cattle rustling. The Fulani peasants lost their herds by means of the factors specified above and by contact with modernity’s social interactions. The next phase was the recruitment of informants to Hausa communities and families that own cattle, with the aim to rustle. They bribed traditional rulers and the police with stolen cattle or money from the proceeds of the sales of same. Local butchers, Hausa, Fulani and other ethnic stock got involved because the cattle were sold at give-away prices, like most stolen things on sale. Unemployed Hausa youths in the villages got involved and became emissaries to buy essential commodities such as drugs, food items, petrol, drinks, intoxicants and repair their motorcycles. They were paid generous sums of money. Paramedical staff who went to the bush to treat the injured were paid in similar proportion. Among the informants in Zamfara State are traditional rulers’ guards (dogarai) and some unpatriotic staff of security agencies. Some of these informants have become, not only peripheral participants and collaborators, but also directly partake in sundry criminal activities. A very intelligent and shrewd race, the Fulani cultural orientation is such that they most times blur the line between bravery and belligerency. That is what makes his perception about murder amazing. To a typical Fulani, murder is bravery. A younger brother that kills his elder brother is seen as a courageous warrior capable of defending his family should an enemy launch attack. He constantly adjusts his plans and strategies to adapt to the times, different circumstances and the environment while his espionage capacity is at a high level, usually unanticipated for the level of the peasantry of these folks. That makes him difficult to fight and an extremely dangerous enemy. The level of kinship of the Fulani is second to none. It permeates every fibre of their lives. Such strong brotherhood may have given rise to the bond of community. A Fulani man can give up himself for the survival of his cattle, brother or family member. Their selfless nature can be attested to by the simple example that when his brother or cattle is sick or hungry as he himself, he will attend to the hunger or illness of the other before himself. Looking back to move forward The 2001 herdsmen/farmers clashes in Plateau State, which led former President Olusegun Obasanjo to declare a state of emergency in the state, started as a result of a clash where indigenes killed 500 herds of cattle in retaliation. The Fulani, who were affected by this onslaught, it was said, invited their kith and kin within Nigeria and other parts of Africa to save them from extinction. They all came and the Plateau attack happened. The consequence was catastrophic. Many of the visiting attackers made a lot of material gains and went back home, scot free. Some remained in Nigeria, having realised it is a country where crimes hardly attract proportionate sanctions. Such illegal aliens remained in Nigeria and made a career out of criminality. In addition, the increasing ratio of unemployment, poverty, hunger and the lifestyle of the Nigerian elite, combine to frustrate unemployed Nigerian youths, forcing them to join crime syndicates in order to make money and live luxurious lives like the children of the elite. One other factor responsible for the upsurge of criminality and insecurity in Nigeria is that military commanders and other security agencies deployed to affected areas rarely consult community leaders before embarking on their operations. They mainly consult government bureaucracies who are oftentimes complicit in the phenomenon. The Zamfara tales of horror is one example. The local hunters, known as Civilian JTF (Yan sa kai or vigilante group), are most of the times arrested and detained when they are in the best position to provide assistance for the successful military operations, in view of their knowledge of the local terrain and other extraneous expertise they have acquired for a successful fight against criminals. The most dangerous trend that compounds the phenomenon is the religious and ethnic sentiments we attach to these killings. It is most unfortunate that in this era of civilisation, digitalism and advanced science and technology, Nigeria has lost all sense of the sanctity of human life, and reactions to killings are tailored towards religious, ethnic and other sentimental lines. Another factor is an absence of oversight on the part of President Muhammadu Buhari’s government. Funds released by the government for military operations to confront this threatening menace rarely reach the desired destination. The government appears more interested in telling Nigerians how much it spends on security, rather than tracking the success attained. The Buhari government lacks an effective monitoring system to ensure the attainment of value for funds spent. If something is not done urgently, these criminal elements would take control of the country.