The Lagos State police command has commenced probe into allegations of extortion and illegal raid in Agege, Lagos metropolis, against the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) in charge of the Pen Cinema police station, Harrison Nwabuisi. Reports had gone viral on the social media alleging that the DPO and some of his men raided a mosque and some places on Alimi Ogunyemi Street, Ifako-Ijaiye, on the last day of the Sallah celebration and extorted monies from those they had arrested before they were released. Daily Trust learnt that the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, consequently directed the Deputy Commissioner of Police, State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID), Panti Street, Yetunde Longe, to investigate the matter. Our correspondent gathered that victims of the arrest told the probe panel, which began sitting on Tuesday, that the police team released some of them that were able to identify themselves and handed over those that could not to officials of the Lagos State Task Force at Oshodi. A police source, who is a member of the panel said, “We have carried out discreet investigation into the case. The key witnesses denied being arrested inside a mosque.  They, however, made a strong case of extortion against some of the officers, whom they also identified to us during a parade. “There was also an argument between the DPO and one of the witnesses who alleged that he, the DPO, collected money from one of the officers in his presence. However, we did not see that as a strong case against the DPO because it was like an afterthought from the witness who was fidgeting during the session. “One of the suspects alleged that a police sergeant he could not identify accompanied him to the gate and secretly extorted N5,000 from his parents after the DPO had advised them against engaging in any criminal act and ordered their immediate release. “However, all the suspects did not mince words in stating that the Pen Cinema area is usually a very volatile area during such festive periods but lamented that the brutal manner they were hounded and thrown into police vehicles at the scene during the raid was very inhuman.” The probe team is expected to conclude its assignment and submit its report to the Commissioner of Police this week.