The Institute for Peace and Conflict Resolution (IPCR) said it will send a fact-finding team to Zamfara state to ascertain the current causes and dynamics of conflicts in the state. The state has been the hotbed of rural banditry, which has caused hundreds of deaths and displaced thousands. The Acting Director General of the institute, Bakut Tswah Bakut, told newsmen on Monday in Abuja that the effort was to proffer solutions that would bring lasting peace back to the state. “The institute will, on Thursday, August 30, 2018, mobilise a team of researchers to the three senatorial zones of Zamfara to ascertain the current causes and dynamics of the conflicts and proffer solutions that will bring lasting peace back to the area,” he said. Bakut, who briefed the press alongside the Chairman of IPCR Governing Council, Senator Muhammed Abba Aji, expressed worry over the recurrent killings in Zamfara despite the early warning mechanism put in place to avert conflicts. He said survey by the institute indicated that citizens in most of the affected areas in the state now live in fear, while farming, which is the major occupation of more than 80% of the population, has been literally abandoned. He however said IPCR team is making efforts to get the cooperation on the state officials and other stakeholders to re-energise its early warning and early mechanisms in the state. He said the outcome of the findings would be shared with various stakeholders especially the federal and state governments, security agencies and development partners for more proactive interventions. Speaking earlier, Senator Abba Aji said though there are conflicts in other parts of the country especially in the Middle Belt, the institute chose Zamfara because the conflict is least controversial. “It has no religious or political element. It is simply banditry,” he said. “Indeed, we will soon be adequately interfacing with federal and state governments on this and other insecurity issues in other parts of the country in order to effectively deal with insecurity,” he added.