A one-time Registrar of the Lagos State University (LASU), Mr Owolabi Amisu, passed on early on Tuesday morning while preparing for the Eid-el-Fitri prayers, according to his eldest daughter, Joke. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that Amisu, who was appointed registrar in 1998, held sway until 2004. A native of Epe in Lagos State,  Amisu died at the age of 71, according to the family. Grieving over the father’s death, Joke told NAN: “It is very disheartening and shocking.” She said he was not sick until he passed on suddenly. “My daddy woke up sound and healthy early this morning to prepare for Eid-el-Fitri prayers. “Not until 8.00 am that he complained of a slight headache and we immediately rushed him to Epe General Hospital for treatment. “But he could not survive it as he gave up the ghost at 9.00 am, ” she said. Meanwhile, condolences have poured in for the family of the late LASU Registrar, among is from a Lagos lawmaker, Mr Segun Olulade, who described him as a knowledgeable and intelligent man. According to him, Amisu had identified some societal problems and proffered corrective measures. “Amisu will be sorely missed by all in Epe division because he always put his deep knowledge and understanding of academics at the disposal of people. “I am deeply saddened by the death of the former registrar. But as a believer, we must take every occurrence as the will of God. “I condole with his immediate family, the Muslim community and Epe,” Olulade told NAN in Epe. He urged youths particularly in the area to emulate his exemplary life style. The Chairman, Eredo Local Government, Mr Adeniyi Saliu, expressed sadness over the death of Amisu, describing it as a great loss to Epe, Eredo community and the academia. He will be remembered for his boldness, courageous stance and wealth of knowledge which marked him out in the present day Nigeria,” he also told NAN. Also, Mrs Aderonke Ige, the immediate past Registrar, Lagos State Polytechnic, said: “His death is shocking to me because I talk to him virtually everyday. “I did not expect him to leave us so soon. I will miss him greatly and his wealth of knowledge. “He is well known in the academic environment as an intelligent and courageous man.” (NAN)