The belief that technological venture is to be restricted to the male folks is fast changing as more women are not only venturing but breaking grounds in this business. Famade Adejumoke Sandra, the founder of BlacTech who is into computer repairs and sales of gadgets and accessories told YOUTHVILLE what prompted her to start the venture. “I learnt this business during my Internship year in 2015. I worked in the company’s IT department and from there I knew I had passion for hardware” says Jumoke. The Computer Science graduate said there were times when she was frowned at and not taken serious at some point in the early stages of her career but her diligence has resulted in more customers. The young entrepreneur who started the venture back in 2015 said “why I started it is because I had passion for it and I found out that it’s going to be lucrative and it’s also going to be a great opportunity for me as a woman and a window to learn more”. “At the time I needed money and as a computer science graduate I don’t like programming (software) but I preferred the hardware aspect. Most importantly I want to make good use of my degree so I ventured to the business” she added. Jumoke whose starting capital was about 10,000 naira said one needs an education and most importantly passion, zeal and commitment to be a professional in her field. “It’s quite lucrative because at first everyone wanted to ‘test’  a female engineer.” “I have clients both on mainland and island in Lagos,” she boasts. She also adds that she uses social media to advertise her work noting that “when I repair a laptop I make sure I post the “before” and “after” on social platform. I also tweet a lot about what I sell and my capabilities. The main people I am willing to attract are companies or firms... At this stage I think I need contracts now to repair and maintain laptops for organizations.” Jumoke who hails from Ogun state also tutors young kids in Maths, English and Computer basics as a part time business. She said her major challenge is that sometimes getting customers that will trust your work can be challenging. “Some customers prefer cheap labor. The most challenge a repair person can face is while trying to repair one, you find out another thing has been damaged and the customer puts the blame on you and out of your funds you have to repair it. Few people have told me I have no business in a man’s work so that was a challenge when I just started,” she said. Jumoke who works with 2 partners in Lagos urged youths not to rely on looking for jobs alone, they should try to get their hands working. “Think of a trade and carry it out. No matter how little the fund is. I started with a 200 naira screw driver, now I have a mighty box of tools... and for those that want to go into my field; Just know you aren’t a fountain of knowledge, don’t be too afraid to go on Google and YouTube to get the knowledge you need. Start from small. Don’t start fixing motherboards when you are meant to be fixing keyboards. Climb the ladder one step at a time... Finally don’t let anyone at all put you down and tell you can’t because you CAN,” she said.