Ayisha Osori has been appointed the head, Open Society Initiative for West Africa (OSIWA).  In a release issued, Osori, was appointed Executive Director of the foundation and is expected to resume work on Sept. 4, 2018. Osori is a lawyer, development consultant and communications strategist, who has worked in both the public and private sectors in different capacities. She has also worked with the World Bank, the United Nations Children’s Fund, the National Democratic Institute, and the Department of International Development. Osori has been in the forefront on the fight for good governance, gender equality, women’s economic and political empowerment, and ending violence against women. She also serves on the board of directors of the Nigerian Women Trust Fund. Speaking shortly after her appointment, Osori said, “I can’t wait to get started. OSIWA has been at the forefront of civil society’s work across West Africa, and I am thrilled to have the opportunity to help lead its efforts to promote democratic practice, economic advancement, equality, justice, and human rights; and to work with some of the smartest and most committed people in the region and the world.” The human right activist, who has been vocal on several national issues, is also the author of the book, Love Does Not Win Elections. The book captured her experiences as a candidate of Nigeria’s Peoples’ Democratic Party in a primary contest for a seat in the country’s National Assembly. She has also written a series of children’s textbooks on social studies. “We are honoured to have the leadership of the next chapter of OSIWA’s work in Ayisha Osori’s capable hands,” said Patrick Gaspard, president of the Open Society Foundations. “She has already built an impressive legacy of work on a wide variety of issues of concern to Open Society in the region, and she always puts the advancement of women’s rights at the fore. I look forward to partnering with her to advance our work and our values throughout West Africa.” OSIWA is present in 10 countries including: Benin, Cote D’Ivoire, Ghana, Guinea, Liberia, Mali, Niger, Nigeria, Sierra Leone, and Senegal. Among other areas of concern, OSIWA has helped to develop civil society’s capacity, improve transparency and public service delivery, and promote good governance.