A Lagos-based businessman, Alhaji Kabir Muraino, has expressed shock on the discovery that his wife staged her own kidnap in order to extort N15 million from him. The 55-year-old businessman told journalists yesterday at the Police Command Headquarters, Ikeja, where Hadijat, his wife, was being detained that she had contracted the service of five persons, including a herbalist, to tell him they had abducted her and her sick daughter. He added that her accomplices did collect the said sum from him after threatening on phone to kill her if the money was not paid. “I was afraid and didn’t know what to do. I pleaded with them I didn’t have such an amount but they insisted. In the background, I could hear my wife crying and pleading with them. I never knew it was stage managed. “I told them I would pay them N500,000 but they refused. They reduced the money from N15m to N5m. The negotiation continued and they later reduced the ransom to N4m. It was then I decided to inform the police. I was shocked when I later learnt it was my wife that staged the whole thing.” Muraino said he earlier this year gave Hadijat N300,000 to empower her in her business, while one of his sons added N150,000 to the amount. “I wonder what she needed N15m for after all that. She did not invest the money I gave her in any business,” he added. Admitting the act but justifying it, 45-year-old Hadijat said Muraino had abandoned her and her children, saying besides, she also needed some money for her sick daughter’s medical bill. “My daughter is 18 years old and she has been convulsive since birth. He kept building houses everywhere and keeping the proceeds to himself.  I didn’t know what to do, that was why I cooked up the plan of faking my own kidnap,” she said. The suspect further explained she went to stay with one of her friends in Ogun State and it was allegedly the friend’s husband and his elder brother who called Muraino requesting for N1m and not N15m. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, who paraded the suspects before newsmen yesterday, said Muraino had on August 2, 2018 reported at the Ikotun police station that Hadijat  and his daughter, Hamidat Kemi, 18, whom he described as of unsound mind had been kidnapped same date on their way to the Psychiatric Hospital, Oshodi, Lagos, and the kidnappers were demanding for the sum of N15m. Edgal said, “When one of the hostages, Hadijat Kabir, was being debriefed, she confessed that she planned her kidnap with the other suspects to defraud her husband. She named the following persons who are on the run to be part of the kidnap syndicate: Wasiu Rufai (her native doctor), Luqmon Ahmed and Jossy.”