As Amina Dahiru, 19, cuddles her new born and heaves a sigh of relief, it is the first time in close to a fortnight that she would display such emotion. Amina had been shattered since Monday 9th July, 2018 when her husband Isuhu was killed during the bandits’ onslaught on Tabanni Village, where 38 others were also killed in the attack that forced thousands of residents to flee their abode. It was Amina’s first pregnancy and she was very close to delivery of their baby when she lost her spouse and companion. Amina is one of the 32 women who had put to bed as at August 2, 2018 when Daily Trust Saturday paid a visit to the Gandi IDP camp, which is providing shelter for over 4,000 displaced persons from Tabanni and other villages affected by the bandits’ attack. Saratu Murtala, 25, also put to bed after the horrendous attack. A heavily pregnant Saratu, with her two children, was among throngs that fled the village and trekked several kilometres to safety. Saratu gave birth in the early hours of Wednesday 18th July 2018, nine days after the bandits’ assault. Her husband says they will celebrate the birth of their child when they return to the village after normalcy is restored. The arrival of the new babies has brought a sort of sparkle to the camp where many only had gory tales to share on how family members were mercilessly killed. For Baliru Shuaibu, a housewife from Kursar Gabirawa, it is her third child. Though her face lit up as she spoke about the birth of her baby, she lamented: “My new baby gives me joy but I feel unhappy that I delivered in a crowded environment instead of the usual calm setting of my home. Look at where I am lying down with people - both male and female, passing by every now and again. I am supposed to be confined to my room where even my husband cannot disturb me.” She misses the comfort she enjoyed at home after childbirth: “I have this nagging abdominal pain which I never experienced during my previous child birth at home, I need my constant hot bath and spiced kumu which is necessary for the baby to have regular flow of breast milk.” At the camp clinic situated opposite the Model Primary School Gandi, medical personnel were placed on 24-hour service, and any case which proved difficult was referred to Primary Health Care Centre in Gandi, and in rare cases, to Sokoto. The Deputy Director, Health of Rabah Local government who is in charge of the clinic, Sani Shehu Gandi, said that all the 32 women were successfully delivered of their babies. “We are still expecting more,” he added. Fifty-four pregnancies have been recorded in the camp.