The Kaduna State Police Command yesterday paraded suspected killers of four policemen, who were part of the Inspector General of Police (IGP) Intelligence Rapid Response Team (IRT), at Jankasa, Rigasa area of Kaduna State. The police also paraded suspected killers of two policemen along Birnin Gwari road. Parading the suspects yesterday, the Acting Commissioner of Police, Ahmed Magaji Kontagora, said on 16/08/2018, the IGP Special Tactical Squad (STS) alongside operatives from Operation Yaki raided an armed robbers/kidnappers hide out along Sabon Birni village Igabi Local Government Area. Kontagora, who is also the Deputy Commissioner of Police in-charge of Finance and Operation, said after a fierce gun dual, two suspected armed bandits were fatally injured and were confirmed dead on arrival at the Barau Dikko Hospital Kaduna. According to him, “After the recent ambush of the IGP IRT operatives at Jankasa village of Rigasa in Igabi LGA on Saturday, August 11, 2018, we embarked on intensive manhunt of the perpetrators of that incident and other cases of crime within the command with a view to arresting and bringing all the culprits to book. “On this, I wish to inform you that One AK47 Riffle and five live ammunitions were recovered at the scene. Investigation revealed that the suspects belonged to the gang of criminals terrorizing Birnin Gwari axis and were responsible for the killing of one Inspr Felix Yohanna attached to FSARS last year at Walawa forest and the four IGP IRT personnel that died in the recent ambush incident at Jankasa. “Similarly, the command’s Anti-Kidnapping and FSARS squads as well as the SIB have also recorded additional successes in arresting the following suspected criminals and made recoveries of exhibits during the period under review including; 7 suspected kidnappers, 8 suspected armed robbers, 4 suspected notorious fraudsters, 3 suspected shop breakers and have recovered 3 AK47 rifles, 3 magazines with 20 rounds of ammunition 2 Motor vehicles 1 Golf Wagon with Reg No. ES904FST and 1 Toyota Corolla with Reg No. RBC04MQ all blue in color.” He said the suspects will be charged to court for prosecution on completion of investigation accordingly.