At least 20 million under-5 children in 18 states and the Federal Capital Territory are being considered for integrated Birth Registration, Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Muhammed said. He said this in Lagos at a Media Dialogue on Birth Registration organised by the ministry in collaboration with the United Nation Children Fund (UNICEF). The minister said the states include Adamawa, kebbi, Niger, Borno, Jigawa, Bauchi, kaduna, katsina, kano, Sokoto, Ekiti, Enugu, Ondo, Rivers, Oyo, Ogun, Benue, Lagos and the FCT. Represented by Deputy Director in the Ministry who is also the Head of Advocacy on Child Rights Information Bureau (CRIB), Mr Olumide Osanyinpeju, the minister charged parents to ensure birth registration for every child below age five with the National Population Commission (NPC) so as to aid proper planning for the kids by government. He urged the media to work assiduously to develop clear messages that will sensitize and inspire people to take the desired action on birth registration. The minister emphasised the need to give identity to every Nigerian child through birth registration. He lamented that registering children in Nigerian has been difficult due to a host of unfavourable factors. He said the factors include the large number of babies delivered at home rather than in the health facilities, lack of manpower needed to register the births of most children and the ignorance on the part of civil society on the importance of birth registration. He commended UNICEF for its contributions to the campaign on birth registration in the country and for its unyielding support and partnership with the Federal Government as well as its consistent effort to ensure that the Birth Registration programme succeeds. “We commend UNICEF for her activities in trying to eradicate ignorance of mothers and caregivers on the importance of registering the births of their newborn and obtaining the evidence of a birth certificate.” He also lauded the collaboration of National Population Commission, Federal Ministry of Health, other line partners, State Partners and other Stakeholders and the media on the birth registration campaign. The minister said the low level, or apparently lack of awareness on the importance of birth registration has resulted in lack of proper capturing and planning for the children and in developmental and social processes that affect them.