A mother of two, Dasola Akinkule, will know on September 6, 2018 whether her prayer to end her eight-year-old marriage to her husband, Tunde Akinkule, will be granted by the Oja-Oba Customary Court, Mapo, Ibadan, Oyo State. Dasola had told the court that Akinkunle hadn’t shown worthy qualities to be her husband as he was “a pathological liar, wicked, useless and careless about the well-being of the family.” She said she was once compelled to invite the police to arrest him when he allegedly inflicted serious injuries on her with a stick. The petitioner said when her husband impregnated her, he took her to his family house to stay with his family rather than secure an apartment for both of them. When Akinkunle eventually rented a room apartment for them, she added, he brought in his younger brother whom she accused of always insisting on sharing the bed with her whenever she wanted to sleep. She frowned, “How could I sleep beside a mature man who is not my husband?” Dasola told the court that her frustration reached the peak one day when she returned from work to discover her husband had removed all her belongings from their home. She asked the court to dissolve the marriage and grant her custody of their two children. But Akinkunle, a driver who lives in the Ojoo area of Ibadan, said his wife was not being sincere with her allegations against him in the court. He said his wife was a nurse when he met her but, when she could not practise, he advised her to learn how to operate the computer and invested in the business for her. The petitioner told the court that it was true that his wife was staying with his mother when she had her first pregnancy because he was then working in northern Nigeria. The respondent, who presented receipts of computer scanners, generators and other business equipment, accused Dasola’s mother of being the problem he had with his wife, describing her as an “intruder” in the marriage. The president of the court, Chief Ademola Odunade, requested for more evidence to prove the real owner of the computer business and demanded to see the two children in court on the next adjournment.