Residents of Rivers State, especially motorists and travellers that ply Elele, Omerelu and Ubima routes, are apprehensive over the activities of kidnappers around the area. Regularly, motorists and their passengers are abducted and taken hostage, in a thick forest. Huge sums of money are paid as ransom. In many cases, victims are killed by the abductors after collecting huge ransoms. There are two categories of kidnappers that operate within Elele, Omerelu, Ozuoba and Ubima routes: the first, comprises of those who kidnap for ransom, while the second is made up of those who kidnap for ritual killings. A kidnap victim, Precious Isiguzo, who escaped from kidnappers, told Daily Trust Saturday  that she boarded a bus at Igwurita, heading to Chokocho but ended up in a bush where kidnap victims are kept and butchered for supposedly arcane rituals. Isiguzo was lucky, as she escaped when the bandits started quarrelling amongst themselves. She commended the police for efforts in rescuing victims. Her story is one of many ugly incidents occurring in the area. Last week, an 18-seater bus going to Port Harcourt from Owerri, was hijacked and its passengers kidnapped by bandits along Elele/Omerelu road. Rivers State Police Command spokesman, Nnamdi Omoni, said  two corpses  were  recovered among the kidnapped victims  of the 18-seater bus while eight persons were rescued. He also confirmed that six of the passengers are still missing. Two days after the incident,  another gang of masked gunmen struck again, along the same Owerri-Port Harcourt road, hijacking another 18-seater commercial bus with its occupants, and diverted the vehicle into the bush. This occurred less than 48 hours after the earlier one. Martins Aluziwe, a driver who plies the route, alerted his colleagues in Port Harcourt about the incident . He said the bus took off from Control Station in Owerri en route Port Harcourt, and he said it happened around 7:15am. The whereabouts of the victims, and bus, remains unknown. The remaining six victims of the previous incident are yet to regain their freedom as of press time. What baffles motorists and concerned citizens, is the quick progression at which the incidents occurred despite heavy presence of both police and army checkpoints along the stretch of Port Harcourt International Airport Junction, to the boundary of Rivers and Imo states at Omerelu. Daily Trust Saturday checks show that, combined, there are more than 13 police and army checkpoints on the stretch of road. Rivers State Commissioner of Police, Zaki Ahmed, said the command has increased its patrol teams along the long stretch of the road.  He said that they will sustain the aggressive onslaught against the criminals. He said that he has directed his officers to redouble their efforts and embark on massive raids of all criminal hideouts including the bushes and forests and take the war to them.