The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in the FCT has said that 18,893 Permanent Voter Cards (PVCs) are yet to be collected in Kuje Area Council. The Resident Electoral Commissioner in charge of the FCT, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) after a meeting with stakeholders in Kuje. Bello said the council had so far registered 114,461 voters, but had over 18,893 PVCs yet to be collected in INEC office in the area. He called on the chairman of the council, Abdullahi Galadima and traditional rulers in the area to sensitise the people on the need to collect their PVCs before the 2019 general elections. “One of the purposes I brought this sensitisation programme to the area councils is to bring awareness to the grassroots on the need for the people to collect their PVCs. “We do not want to continue keeping these cards, INEC is not the one voting, without these cards, the electorate cannot vote,” he said. Bello also said the distribution of the cards would continue until one week to the general elections, while registration would be suspended as from Aug. 17 until after the 2019 general elections. He said the development was to enable the commission produce more cards for the general elections, and assured those who registered before the suspension that they would get their cards before the general elections. Mrs Zainab Gbefwi, the Electoral Officer of Kuje Area Council, commended the residents for their positive response in the ongoing voter registration. Gbefwi urged them to show the same spirit and come out en masse to vote during the general elections. She also urged all religious leaders, traditional heads and political representatives to preach peace and violence-free elections to the people during and after the general elections. The electoral officer said the meeting was necessary and well planned, adding that it would increase the level of preparedness of the people toward the upcoming general elections. NAN reports that the stakeholders meeting was attended by political party executives, religious and traditional leaders, security agents and youths in the council.