The President of the Senate, Dr Bukola Saraki has described the death of former Secretary General of the United Nations (UN), Kofi Annan, as the end of a golden era in global politics and international relations. In a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Mr Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki described the late Annan as a quintessential African diplomat on the global plane and a citizen of the world. He said the deceased deployed his vast capacities to tackle intractable global challenges ranging from hunger, conflict, epidemic and restoration of peace in war torn countries. Saraki noted that many developing nations benefitted immensely from the humanitarian efforts of late Annan as he was able to raise the concerns and challenges confronting “forgotten peoples and nations in the Assembly of world powers. “Annan was a quintessential African Diplomat, who bestrode the world stage with dignity, finesse, admirable restraint and wisdom. He was a diplomat’s diplomat." “He dedicated his immense expertise, experience and energies to resolving some of the world’s most pressing problems and conflicts, including most recently, the Rohingya refugee crisis." “He was a citizen of the world, an African avatar and God’s messenger of peace to the world. His demise is a huge loss to the international community and to humanity." “Africa has indeed lost one of her best. He shall be sorely missed.” The president of the senate commiserated with the wife and children of the deceased, the Government and people of Ghana. He also commiserated the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS), African Union (AU), the United Nations, international humanitarian organisations and the diplomatic community over the irreparable loss. He prayed God to grant the soul of the deceased mercies and to count him among the righteous ones in His abode. Mr Kofi Annan, former UN Secretary General between 1996 and 2007, was a recipient of the prestigious Nobel Peace Prize. Annan, late Ghanaian diplomat, died at 80 peacefully in his sleep on Saturday after a short illness in a Swiss hospital. 