Traditional rulers in Ekiti state have pleaded passionately with the state government to beef up security in their various palaces. Their call followed the gruesome murder of their colleague, the traditional ruler of Odo Oro Ekiti in Ikole local government area of the state, Oba Gbadebo Ogunsakin, last Monday. 

The monarchs, mostly made up of Third Class and others with lesser grades, under the aegies of "Majority Obas of Ekiti", gave the appeal when they paid sympathy visit to the town which had remained in mourning mood since the incident took place.

Led by the Olowa of Odo Owa Ekiti, oba Ayomide Oyedeji, they described the way and manner the incident that took their colleague away as shocking, unfortunate and worrisome.

According to them, the perpetrator of the crime would probably have not found it easy to carry out the crime if the palace had been fortified by armed security men, complimenting local guards.

Though they acnowledged that government had always accorded priority attention to their welfare and wellbeing, beefing-up security in the palaces would be an added advantage, especially considering the unprecedented attack on the palace of the deceased king by his killer.

The traditional rulers also urged residents of the various communities to be security conscious and proactive by not leaving the job of watching over the palaces into the hands of security officials alone.
The community was thrown into mourning last Monday as a 40-year old suspect from a royal background,  Omoniyi Ademola who was initially said to be mental unstable, entered the palace unchallenged and stabbed the traditional ruler to death.

The state police command has since arrested and paraded the suspect, who the police allegex had also owned-up to the crime. 

In his confession to journalists during an interview on Friday at the police headquarters, he said the killing of the oba was done in error but he said he killed him in retaliation when the deceased first attacked him, saying he never knew he would die in the process.

As of the time of filing these reports, normal commercial activies in the town still remained at the lowest ebb as markets are shut as mark of honour for the late oba. 

The late monarch ascended the throne in 1986.