The Anti-Corruption and Research Based Data Initiative (ARDI) has expressed shock and disappointment about the ethnic sentiment being given to the current investigation of the Deputy President of the Senate, Ike Ekweremadu by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), advising the Senator to  carry his cross as a man and stop whipping up tribal sentiment. “Politicians do not consult their constituencies and ethnicity when they embezzle public funds but are very quick to whip up ethnic sentiment whenever they are being prosecuted,” ARDI stated in a statement issued by its Executive Secretary, Dennis Aghanya on Sunday in Enugu. “Fight against corruption does not recognize religion or ethnicity and therefore should not be given such colouration. Ekweremadu’s problem is personal and therefore should be treated as such. What he should be doing now is to assist the security agencies to speed up investigation so that he could prove his innocence or otherwise.” The group said that Ekweremadu should answer to the issues raised by the EFCC concerning the alleged 60 assets traced to him rather than applying all sorts of delay tactics to slow down investigation. “Where justice is delayed or denied over public matter, it is the masses that surfer. He should also stop giving it the colouration of a persecution against Ndigbo. Politicians should stop using religion and ethnicity to divide us in this country or paint security agencies black,” Aghanya said. The body said that another disturbing aspect to this kind of matter was also the role of cultural organizations such as the Ohanaeze Ndigbo which views every prosecution of public officers of their own nativity as being unjustly persecuted rather than cautioning such persons for bringing shame to them.  ARDI commended the Okoi Obono-Obla-led Special Presidential Investigation Panel for the Recovery of Public Property for tracing those 22 assets and the EFCC also for the courage and uprightness to commence further investigations, adding, however, that petitions submitted to the various security agencies by “noble Nigerians, with overwhelming facts and evidences over this case were swept under the carpet in the past. The said assets were suspected to have been acquired through illicit funds.” Aghanya further wondered: “How can one man alone allegedly own the under listed properties in and outside the country? ·        No. 11, Evans Enwerem Street, Apo Legislative Quarters, Apo, Abuja; ·        Plot 2633 Kyami, Abuja; ·        Housing Estate (Plot 1106 CRD, Cadastral Zone 07-07, Lugbe, Abuja; ·        Plot 2782 Asokoro Extension, Abuja, and ·        Houses at Citi Park Estate, Gwagwalada, Abuja; ·        Plot 1474 Cadastral Zone BD6, Mabushi, Abuja; ·        Congress Court, Abuja; ·        Flat 1, Block D25, Athletics Street (24th Street) Games Village, Abuja; ·        Plot 66, 64 Crescent, Gwarimpa Estate, Abuja. ·        “Traceable assets of Ekweremadu in the United States include ·        4507 Stella Street, Bellavida Estate Kissime, Florida, USA; ·        2747 Club Cortile Circle, Kissime, Florida, USA and ·        2763 Club Cortile Circle, Kissime, Florida, USA. ·        Others in London include Flat 4 Varsity Court, Harmer Street, WIH 4NW, London; ·        and 52 Ayleston Avenue, NW6 7AB, London. ·        “Those in Dubai are Room 1903, The Address Hotel, Downtown Dubai; ·        The Address Boulevard, 3901, Dubai; ·        2 Flats of Burij Side Boulevard (the signature), Dubai; ·        Emirate Gardens Apartment No. EGG1/1/114, Dubai; Emirate Gardens Apartment No. EGG1/115, Dubai; ·        Apartment No. DFB/12/B 1204, Park Towers, Dubai; ·        Flat 3604, MAG214, Dubai; and ·        Villa No 148, Maeen 1, The Lakes Emirates Hills, Dubai.” Aghanya further argued that it could not be a mere coincidence for all these assets to be traced just to one man, insisting that even if he genuinely acquired them would it not be an act of wickedness against the society and indeed the same people he is meant to protect their interest?