Hajiya Uwa Yusuf Waziri, nicknamed ‘Uwar Marayu’ ( Hausa for ‘Mother of Orphans’) presently has five abandoned children in her custody, while four others died from complications a few months after they were brought to her. Daily Trust Saturday recalls that sometime in August 2016, the Saudi Embassy in Abuja donated an undisclosed amount of money to the lady after they read her report on the pages of this newspaper. Since then, Uwar Marayu has been struggling to take care of the babies on her own, with the support of her husband and biological children. The children in her care include Fatima (7), Hajara (7), Halima (3), Khadija (3), and Yusuf, who is about three-weeks-old, and they know no mother but Hajiya Uwa. Speaking with our correspondent, Hajiya Uwa said it is by the will of Almighty Allah that she has been able to take care of the children. “I used to be a housewife, but with the children I keep getting, I had to venture into a small business so that I can provide for them. My husband is retired and elderly, he cannot continue to provide for the children because already we have 11 biological children of ours, and I want these children to be responsible members of the society, and the only way they can is if we equip them with sound education.” Hajiya Uwa said Alhaji Sani Zango Daura has been her saving grace. “He has taken it upon himself to train two of the children, and has enrolled them both in primary and Islamic schools. I am appealing to well-meaning Nigerians to help me bring these orphans up so that they become a source of inspiration to other orphans.” Hajiya Uwa said her oldest biological child is 40, and the youngest is nine. “So I have time to take care of the babies, most of whom were less than a week-old when they were brought to me. When the children are found, mostly within Igabi LGA, they are taken to the house of the District Head, who sends them to me because he knows the love I have for children.” “The baby of the house, who I’ve named Yusuf after my husband, was found in a brick-making factory in Ungwan Kaji about three weeks ago. His mother wore him very nice clothes, and wrapped him up properly before she abandoned him.” Asked if she plans on telling the children how she got them, she said: “I’d rather not tell them. There was a time one of the children came home crying that another child told her that I am not her mother and that she was thrown away by her real mother. Immediately, I took my hijab and stormed off to the child’s parents, and had a word with them. I know when they grow up they will hear different stories about their background, but I pray and hope that by then they will be strong enough. Also, I don’t think I can sit them down one day and tell them that I am not their real mother.”