A former permanent secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance, Chief Mike Onoja has declared interest to take over the Benue South Senatorial seat from incumbent Senator David Mark in the forthcoming 2019 general election. Onoja made his intention to represent his Idoma people known at the weekend in Otukpo during a rally which he led thousands of his supporters in the district popularly known as Zone C to defect from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) to the People's Democratic Party (PDP). He told party faithful at the rally that he went on sabbatical sojourn to the APC and now back to his home, recalling that as an aspirant for the Zone C senatorial seat in 2015, he stepped down for the then Senate President, David Mark in the hope that the PDP would win that election and he (Mark) would be returned back as Senate President. "In 2014/2015, I was an aspirant in this very party against the senate president. The accreditation was done and we were to start voting when I stepped down for David Mark in the interest of the Idoma nation. If the PDP had won that time, David Mark would have been returned as Senate President. I did that without any precondition and he (Mark) was grateful I did that. "After that, I took sabbatical leave from the party. Now, my sabbatical leave has ended. So, it is my honor to be back home. I have gone and have seen that the grass that is so called greener is not as green as we thought. I went to APC and discovered APC is a one man party. It is a party of one man by one man and for one man," he said. The former permanent secretary stressed that in APC, unless you know somebody, you cannot become anything and that such idea was not good for democracy as he further opined that at a certain point in once life, it would become necessary to refuse to take certain things.  Onoja added, "That is why they (APC) keeps losing elections in Zone C. Therefore, I am here to tell you I am back home with my team very numerous to mention. So, I can tell you that as far as we are concerned, APC is dead in Zone C." In his response, the State Chairman of the PDP, Sir John Ngbede who received Onoja and his supporters back to the PDP emphasised that all party members are all one and nobody can stop anyone from joining the party and standing for any election. Ngbede cautioned party members not to stop anybody from joining the PDP as anyone who wishes to identify with the umbrella logo can do that and has every right to contest for any election. "A ward chairman cannot deny anybody from joining the party. Anyone who tries to stop others from joining us would be sanctioned," the state PDP chairman warned.