Again, members of the proscribed Indigenous People of Biafra (IPOB), on Wednesday met with Igbo leaders in Enugu with a fresh demand on the federal government to explain the fate of their leader, Prince Nnamdi Kanu whose whereabouts remained unknown since the military invaded his house in Afaraukwu, Umuahi, Abia state last year. The pro-Biafra group and Igbo leaders’ meeting in Enugu was in continuation of their deliberation on peace, unity and reconciliation between them and the federal government as well as governments of the southeast zone. This came as the leaders agreed in principle to de-proscribe the pro-Biafra organization banned in 2017 following the military operation “Python Dance” in the southeast, during which some members of the group lost their lives in a bloody clash with soldiers at Umuahia and Aba in Abia state. The Enugu meeting called by Constitutional lawyer, Prof Ben Nwabueze, followed the earlier one held at Atani, Anambra state last Sunday which was  attended by the President-General of Ohanaeze Ndigbo, Chief Nnia Nwodo, Obi of Onitsha, Igwe Alfred Achebe, Catholic Archbishop of Owerri Diocese, Most Rev Anthony Obinna, former Anambra state governor, Peter Obi, former Presidential Adviser, Senator Ben Ndi Obi, President, AlaIgbo Development Foundation (ADF), Prof Uzodinma Nwala, Prof Elo Amucheazi, and traditional rulers, among several others. A German-based lawyer, who led the IPOB delegation to the meeting, Aloy Ejimakor told newsmen after the closed door meeting that lasted several hours at the Zodiac Hotel, Enugu, that they demanded the whereabouts of Nnamdi Kanu as part of the reconciliation with the federal government and Igbo leaders, particularly the southeast governors who first banned IPOB. Ejimakor said: “The fate of our brother Nnamdi Kanu must be addressed. If the witch cried at night and the baby died in the morning, the witch must have killed the baby. Nnamdi Kanu did not rise and disappear. He is not the biblical prophet Elijah that got transfigured to heaven alive. “Something happened; some people came to his house and those people are the men of the Nigerian Armed Forces. They (military) should speak to Nigerians and say, we went there, shot at people. May be we shot at him or wounded him. Let them say that much then we know that the reconciliation has begun. “So I recommend that if it is the truth and reconciliation commission that the federal government want to constitute, let them do that. But some of these things need to be ventilated well. You cannot just come to Igboland or any other part of the country and take their dignity away, and behaved as if nothing happened. “The dignity of the Igboland and Biafra has been taken away since 2017 in the incident that took place at Afaraukwu, Umuahia. It shouldn’t happen. It needs some explanation, an apology is warranted”. He further restated the demand for punishment of those who killed members of the group during the military exercise last year. Ejimakor described as “injustice” the alleged silence of the southeast governors and federal government on the matter which, he said, contradicted human rights and natural justice. He emphasized that it was part of the rising anger in Igboland. Lamenting that the killing should not be swept under the carpet, Ejimakor, said it gave way for the southeast governors’ proscription of  IPOB and the subsequent tagging of  it as a “terrorist organization” by the federal government. Also speaking, Prof Nwabueze, noted that the concern of the leaders was to ensure peace and unity in Igboland and Nigeria at large. Nwabueze also stated that they were ready to do all within their power to ensure true reconciliation between IPOB, federal government, Ohanaeze Ndigbo and southeast governors.