John Sidney McCain III had but one employer throughout his iconic and tempestuous career: the United States of America. It was a family tradition. McCain was a direct descendant, he  claimed, of a captain in George Washington’s army during the  Revolutionary War. And like his father and grandfather before him, each four-star  admirals named John McCain, he lived in the service of his country:  first as a US Navy fighter pilot, then as a lawmaker until his death  Saturday at age 81, following a brain cancer diagnosis in the summer of  2017. He too might have become an admiral, if a Soviet-made surface-to-air  missile had not cut short his own high-flying military trajectory on  October 26, 1967. On the day of his 23rd mission over Vietnam, his A-4 Skyhawk was hit as he flew across Hanoi’s skies. McCain ejected, and parachuted into a small lake in the center of  town, where he was nearly lynched by a furious mob. His two arms and  right knee were badly broken. With his father the commander of all US forces in the Pacific, McCain would remain a prisoner of war for more than five years. He was released in 1973 after the Paris Peace Accords, but the  physical consequences of his deliberately ill-treated fractures — and  torture in prison — would cost him his career as a pilot. “For some reason it was not my time then, and I do believe that  therefore because of that, that I was meant to do something,” he said in  a 1989 interview. That something, it became clear, would be politics. After a few years  as the Navy’s Senate liaison, McCain moved to Arizona, the home state  of his second wife, and won a seat in the US House of Representatives in  1982. His ambitions grew, and he rose quickly to the Senate, the most  powerful political body in America. It became his second home for 30  years. McCain long cultivated the image of a Republican maverick, defying  his party on issues ranging from campaign finance reform to immigration. He saw little use for party discipline, an attitude reinforced by his  past episodes of rebellion — as an unruly student at the US Naval  Academy, or a hotheaded prisoner provoking his Vietnamese jailers. “Surviving my imprisonment strengthened my self-confidence, and my  refusal of early release taught me to trust my own judgment,” McCain  wrote in his 1999 memoir, “Faith of My Fathers.” It was this unorthodox, unbridled McCain, disdainful of authority and  occasionally arrogant, who threw his hat in the ring in the 2000  presidential race. A self-proclaimed “straight talk” campaigner, he offered Americans  his moderate-right vision, while keeping at arm’s length the Christian  conservatives that his opponent George W. Bush had successfully seduced. McCain came up short, but solidified his stature and eventually seized the Republican torch from the unpopular president Bush.  In 2008, he made peace with the party establishment, and finally won the presidential nomination. With the White House within reach, he made an instinctive — and  deeply controversial — call. Many of his associates would never forgive  him for choosing as his runningmate a virtual unknown, the untested  Alaska governor Sarah Palin. The decision helped usher in the grass roots Tea Party revolution and the rise of populism later embodied by Donald Trump. Democrat Barack Obama easily prevailed in the election. McCain, now  twice defeated, took to joking about how he started sleeping like a  baby: “Sleep two hours, wake up and cry, sleep two hours, wake up and  cry.” McCain could work a crowd. In Washington, he held court with reporters in the halls of Congress, at times pithy and impatient. “That’s a dumb question,” he told one probing journalist. But the snappy tone could turn to self-deprecation: “I don’t think I’m a very smart guy,” he once said. He could also be volcanic, especially about causes dear to him: the  armed forces, American exceptionalism and, in his later years, the  threat posed by Russia’s Vladimir Putin, whom he branded “a murderer and  a thug.” McCain’s fellow Republicans occasionally mocked his interventionist  reflexes, noting he could never say no to a war. After all, he once  referenced a Beach Boys tune when singing about whether to “bomb bomb  bomb” Iran. To the end, McCain remained convinced that America’s values should be  shared and defended worldwide. He routinely hopped a flight to Baghdad,  Kabul, Taipei, or a revolution-wracked Kiev, received more like a head  of state than a lawmaker. After the annexation of Crimea, Russia placed his name on a blacklist  in retaliation for US-led sanctions. “I guess this means my spring  break in Siberia is off,” he shot back. Regarding Russia or Syria, McCain’s voice carried far. But the senator was in effect a general without an army. Trump’s election seemed to trample on the struggles and ideals of the  veteran Republican, who quickly grew dismayed by the billionaire  businessman’s nationalism and protectionism, his flirtation with Putin  and his seeming contempt for the dignity of the office of president. He even took issue with Trump’s multiple draft deferments during the  Vietnam war, granted after he was diagnosed with bone spurs in his foot. But none of it made McCain want to recede into happy retirement.  Perhaps thinking of his grandfather, who died just days after returning  home following Japan’s surrender in World War II, McCain’s non-stop work  meant defying death. Even after his 2016 re-election, he refused to rule out another Senate bid in 2022. Cancer ultimately denied him that goal. McCain is survived by his wife Cindy and their four children, and by a daughter from his first marriage. (NAN)