As part of the Olubadan 90th birthday celebration, an Ibadan-born lecturer and Professor of History at the University of Texas, Austin, USA, Toyin Falola has appealed to Nigerians to preserve their national identities and traditions. He also urges Christians and Muslim faithful to stop denigrating tradition to satisfy their religions, saying, "religion and tradition are not the same. Without separating tradition from religion, we stand the risk of losing tradition". Prof. Falola gave the advice in his lecture themed: "Isese, Asa ati Esin: Cultural Bridges to Our Development and Modernity” delivered at the Mapo Hall, Ibadan, Oyo State capital in commemoration of the 90th birthday of the Olubadan of Ibadanland, His Imperial Majesty Oba Saliu Akanmu Adetunji, Aje Ogungunniso 1. He recalled that he was a secondary school drop out for two years when he joined the revolting Farmers Association (Agbekoya) who fought the government of the Western Region between 1968 and 1969. "We must all join hands to develop and improve our City, Ibadan. No government will do it for us.  I was a High School drop out. I ran to join the Agbekoya to fight for two years. I was part of the team that stormed this Mapo Hall and freed detainees, and I was part of the fighters that stormed Agodi Prison to release our people detained by the government then," he narrated. On the topic, Falola said "our Christian and Muslim faithful should understand tradition. In Brasil, they do it. They have turned the idea of masquerade into a big festivity where they generate huge investment through tourism. I appeal to our Pentecostal worshippers not to denigrate our tradition with their religion. It was through the medium of our tradition that the colonialists were countered and encroachment by the West was stopped. "Many of our children in Bodija, Oluyole, Lagos cannot speak in Yoruba Language. It is a shame. If a European child calls his father by name, must I call my monarch by name? My tradition is different from theirs. Many parts of our tradition which the West condemned are now been reformed and practised by them. We need to build and develop our tradition. Christians and Muslims can remove whatever they believe is not beneficial and embrace the benefitting aspects of our tradition", he admonished. In his address, the Chairman of the occasion, Dr. Wale Babalakin, also urged Ibadan people to join hands together and improve the wellbeing of Ibadanland. According to him, "if you are waiting for the government, it will be late. Nigeria is not rich. Whoever says that Nigeria has money is deceiving himself or herself. We are all peasants. Nigeria is among the three most difficult countries to live which include Bangladesh and Syria.” "If we don't join hands and use the little money we have to better our lot, we will be deceiving ourselves. When I got here, I looked at this hall. It was built by the colonialists between 1929 and 1930. It is so magnificent and it has not been comparable. It was built when there was no oil. When we now have oil, where have we seen this type of architectural design?” he asked. Dignitaries in attendance include Dr. Wale Babalakin (SAN) who chaired the occasion, Prof. Taoheed Adedoja (Chairman of the birthday committee), Prof. Alan Odulana, Prof. Bolanle Awe (pioneer Director of Institute of African Studies and Commissioner for Education in the Old Oyo, who represented Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, who was the Chief Guest of Honour at the occasion), Prof. Kunle Akinyemi, Engr. Seyi Makinde, Prof. Moji Oyebola, Prof. Akinbola Morakinyo, Prof and Mrs Michael Afolayan, Dr. Tunji Olaopa of the Ibadan School of Government and Public Policy (ISGPP). Others included: the President General of the Central Council of Ibadan Indigenes (CCII) Chief Yemi Soladoye, Chief Lere Adigun, Iyaloja of Ibadanland Alhaja Iswat Abiola Ameringun, Princess Olaide Salawu, Alhaja Basirat Arisekola-Alao (widow of the late Aare Musulumi of Yorubaland), Chief Ajibola Ojo (the President of Isese Omo Oodua), Prof. Felix Kolawole Salako VC, Federal University of Agriculture Abeokuta (FUNAAB), amongst others.