The National Working Committee (NWC) of the All Progressives Congress (APC) queried the Senate President, Bukola Saraki late yesterday night, hours after he announced his defection from the party on his twitter handle.

APC was asking him to respond within 48 hours why disciplinary action ought not to be taken against him for breaching article 21 of the party constitution.

The NWC, in a resolution signed by the APC National Secretary, Mai Maila Buni, said the senate president had allegedly flouted the laws of the party with his activities.

Some of the allegations raised against him includes that “you encouraged and facilitated by providing an enabling environment for the defection of some senators who are members of the APC to the other opposition Parties.

“That you have deliberately refused to screen nominees for appointments submitted by Mr President who are members of the party from being confirmed by the senate. This has caused untold embarrassment and ridicule to the party and the government.

“That you have organized a public rally in your state where members of the party urged you to decamp to PDP. That as a follow up to the above the Kwara state governor who is known to be your staunch supporter had made public pronouncements suggesting that he will decamp from the party as an indicator to your formal defection.

“That you used the office of the senate President to cause avoidable delays in the budgetary process and passage of the appropriation act into law thereby frustrating the implementation of the party’s manifesto and programs and frustrating the APC led Federal Government in the actualization of the campaign promises of the party.

“Converting the guest house of the senate President to meeting points and presiding over anti APC activities in the guest house and encouraging defection of senators from the party and presiding over such meetings and compiling a list of the said defectors including some without their consent.

“Procuring joint letter of decampees from the APC and reading same on the floor of the senate including some who did not accede to defecting thereby causing embarrassment to the party. 

"Inspite of the efforts to address grievances to reconcile aggrieved members, you worked against the process and encouraged the formation of an association which sought to impersonate and pass off the name of the party” it stated.

The resolution asked the senate president to respond to the allegations or face sanctions.