The National Hajj Commission of Nigeria (NAHCON) on Friday evening concluded the airlift of intending pilgrims to the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for the 2018 hajj exercise. The pilgrims, including those of private tour operators and NAHCON officials, were airlifted from the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport Abuja. Speaking with newsmen, the NAHCON commissioner of operations, Abdullahi Modibbo, said state pilgrims welfare boards registered about 40,000 people, while close to 19,000 registered through private tour operators. Modibbo, however, said the late conclusion of the airlift was due to late registration by intending pilgrims, stressing that NAHCON had been making efforts to ensure timely airlift. ‘’Pilgrims did not turn out for registration in good time. If they had turned out in good time, everything would have been done much earlier than now,’’ he said. According to him, each hajj operation has its own peculiarity as a result of the dynamics in the industry. The dynamics, he said, dictate things from time to time. Modibbo noted that the commission had, earlier this year, embarked on sensitisation campaign to enlighten intending pilgrims on early registration. ‘’We sent out teams to meet with the state officials and other stakeholders that we want to do things in good time, but people kept pleading for extension,’’ he said. The commission, he said, has been desirous of ensuring that everyone that has actually registered is also airlifted. ‘’We have found it necessary to make a request for extension, which the authorities in Saudi Arabia graciously honoured,’’ the NAHCON official said. On arrival in Saudi Arabia, Modibbo maintained that no Nigerian intending pilgrim has been left stranded in Nigeria. A national daily (not Daily Trust) had earlier reported that over 17, 000 intending pilgrims had been left stranded in Nigeria. The commission earlier said over 55,000 Nigerian pilgrims were scheduled to perform this year’s Hajj. Speaking to journalists in Makkah at the sidelines of the Pre-Arafat meeting of 2018 Hajj, he said the report was fake. The commissioner said all state pilgrims were taken to Saudi Arabia before the commission’s top management staff and others eventually joined them in Makkah on Friday. A representative of the Association of Tour Operators of Nigeria (AHOUN), Abubakar Siddeeq Mohammed,  said the news is just a figment of the imagination of writers of the story. Meanwhile, the return flight to Nigeria is expected to commence August 27, 2018.