The Kaduna State Peace Commission on Tuesday inaugurated its committees in all the 23 local government areas of the state. The chairman of the commission, Rev. Josiah Idowu-Feron, said in Kaduna that the inauguration was part of ongoing efforts to ensure harmonious coexistence among the people. He noted that the committees were structured as institutional response to the crises facing the state. “It has always been argued that weak governance, ineffective conflict management systems associated with low capacity at the local government and community levels account for most of the conflicts in Nigeria.’’ He said that the council chairmen would be saddled with the responsibility of chairing the peace committee of their respective LGAs, while their secretaries would serve as the vice-chairmen. “Three persons will represent the diverse demography of the LGA, one representative from the Muslim and the Christian communities. “One person representing traditional institutions, youth representative, and the vigilance service coordinators in each of the LGA,’’ he said According to him, the commission is working on a 5-year strategic plan, aimed at transforming Kaduna state into the most peaceful in Nigeria. “It is our hope that very soon, early warning and early response mechanisms will be set up in each LGA. “We strongly advised that quick response and mediation sub-committees should be constituted in all LGAs to deal with all emerging issues that could trigger all forms of social disorders,’’ he said. He appealed to all political parties and stakeholders to imbibe the spirit of democratic values and conduct their campaigns in peace. On his part, Gov. Nasir El-Rufai of Kaduna state said that the Commission inaugurated in Nov. 2017, was to help drive commitment toward sustained peace and harmony in the state. The governor also called for sustenance of monthly security meetings, to improve the security situations in all the LGAs. “Watch out for people who sale alcohol and hard drugs, because these are usually the foundation of conflict,’’ he said. (NAN)