A presidential aspirant on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Senator Ahmed Makarfi, has dismissed the role of money in the race for the party’s presidential ticket. He told newsmen yesterday in Lagos, that even party members concurred he is the best man, among a dozen aspirants, fit for the job and that he does not need to give them money to get their votes. Among the aspirants are former vice-president Atiku Abubakar, former governor of Sokoto, Attahiru Bafarawa, former Kano governor, Rabiu Kwankwaso and Gombe governor, Ibrahim Dankwambo. Senate President Bukola Saraki has been on a national tour, ‘consulting’ to join the race. Makarfi said contrary to certain opinions, money would not determine who picks the PDP ticket, and that money has never been a determinant in who becomes the president of Nigeria. “When did Nigeria start to produce presidents because of resources? Former presidents Alhaji Shehu Shagari, Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, Alhaji Umaru Musa Yar’Adua, Dr Goodluck Jonathan and now President Muhammadu Buhari, did not become presidents based on money. “In one of the Southwest states I visited, a member said other aspirants have been giving them money and gifts, but I don’t have to give them money or gifts to vote for me in the primaries because they know I am the best man for the job,” he said. Makarfi said he was confident of picking the party’s ticket for the 2019 election. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Makarfi, a former governor of Kaduna State who also served as the chairman, PDP National Caretaker Committee, is now one of the over 12 presidential aspirants of the party. The PDP aspirant, who just concluded meetings with PDP members in the Southwest, said his exceptional performance as chairman of the caretaker committee would give him an upper hand at the primaries. “PDP has become a beautiful bride because of what I did. The party was considered dead until I came in as chairman of the caretaker committee and turned it round. “No other presidential aspirant in the party has my pedigree. I have been assured of becoming the groom by members who are aware of those efforts and have sworn they will not sell their votes at the primaries. “Since I joined the PDP, I have never left the party. “My experience as a member of the Senate committee on finance for eight years is also an advantage. I will bring the experience to bear when I pick the ticket and emerge as president,” he said. Makarfi said he had plans to adopt in order to curtail herders-farmers clashes if he gets the party’s ticket and is elected president of Nigeria at a stakeholder visit he held with leaders of the Lagos State Chapter of the PDP in Lagos over the weekend.