Bauchi state Police command has deployed 2,992 personnel throughout the state to provide security during the Sallah celebration billed for tomorrow. A statement by the state Police Command's spokesperson, DSP Kamal Datti Abubakar, said the state Police Commissioner, Sanusi N. Lemu‎ gave the order for the deployment as part of measures to provide security ‎and protect lives and properties of citizens during the festivities. "A total number of 2,992 officers and men will be deployed across the state for this purpose, comprising of Conventional Police, Police Mobile Force (PMF) , Counter Terrorist UNIT (CTU), Explosive Ordinance Disposal (EOD), State Intelligence Bureau (SIB), medical personnel and other operatives of the Command. "The CP has also directed all DPOs, HODs and Sectional Heads to personally supervise the deployment of their men and patrol their areas of responsibilities throughout the period and beyond," it stated. According to the statement, the Police Commissioner has ‎assured that the command is ready to perform its statutory duty of protecting lives and properties of citizens in the state. "The Command is fully prepared to deal with hoodlums, political thugs and other disgruntled elements that may cause panic among the public during the period and will collaborate with sister security agencies and all stakeholders to ensure peaceful and hitc- free celebration. "To that effect, the Command has designed an operation order for effective deployment of officers and men as well as all necessary logistics to all praying grounds and venues of events in the state," it added. The statement further informed that the commissioner also extended his warm greetings to all Muslim faithful and other citizens in the state as they celebrate Eid-el-Kabir. He enjoined them to cooperate with the police and other security agencies in their effort towards ensuring peaceful celebrations. He however charged the public to equally report any suspicious person or object to the nearest Police Station or call the command emergency phone number: 08151849417.