The past weeks have witnessed defection of politicians from the two major political party- the ruling All Progressives Party, APC and the main opposition, Peoples Democratic Party, PDP. The APC is the major victim as federal lawmakers, including the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, state governors left the party for the PDP and Obasanjo’s African Democratic Congress. The development did not go well with some members of the ruling party who levelled barrage of criticism on the defectors as well as attacked the leadership of the Senate for its presumed role in the switch of camps.  Oshiomole Vs Ortom Starting off with what many have described as double standards was the reaction of the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress, Adams Oshiomole to the defection of Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom. Mr Oshiomole who had a week earlier appealed to the governor not to leave the APC described Ortom as a failure adding that his defection was a relief to the party. “I am relieved as national chairman, and I believe that the leadership of the party in Benue is also relieved that Ortom has left the party and returned to the club he belongs” In a swift reaction to the verbal attacks, Governor Ortom in a statement signed his Chief Press Secretary Terver Akase, expressed shock that he was attacked by the party's National Chairman who had earlier described him as one of the star performers of the APC. Berating Oshiomole for his double-speaking, the statement told him to differentiate between being a party chairman and a union leader. “The APC National Chairman’s sudden aggression towards Governor Ortom has revealed among other things, the true oppressive intentions of the ruling party APC against Nigerians. Oshiomhole appears to be flying a kite of an agenda to intimidate and suppress Nigerians who desire freedom from a party which has clearly failed to secure lives and property.” El-Rufai vs Saraki In another development the Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai blasted the Senate President Bukola Saraki, describing the 8th Senate as the worst in the history of the country. According to El-Rufai, some members of the APC whose names were included in the list of defectors claimed that they never authorized it. “We have never had a bad senate leadership like this one by Bukola Saraki. Some people whose names were mentioned among those who defected said they never authorised it,” he said. Reacting, Senator Saraki described the governor as a careless talker, stressing that he could not have announced the name of any defector if they didn’t sign a letter communicating their defection to the PDP. "Is it possible for the name of a senator to be announced as having defected without him or her signing the letter communicating same to the Senate President? “We challenge el-Rufai to mention the name of any senator whose name was announced without his or her consent. He (el-Rufai) is a divisive element, an expert hero worshipper and noisemaker.”  Amaechi vs Kwankwaso Transportation Minister, Rotimi Amaechi in a statement boasted that President Muhammadu Buhari will win the 2019 general elections in Kano and Bauchi States despite the defections of political heavyweights to the PDP. “If you bring the President on a sick bed to Bauchi and Kano, he will win and he has never lost election in Bauchi. But that is a bit arrogant on our side; we should not underestimate them,” he said Reacting to Amaechi's statements, the spokesperson of the former governor of Kano State, Binta Spikin stressed that Mr Kwankwaso’s defection will not only affect the votes in Kano State but has brought down the APC. “I think his defection will greatly affect the votes in 2019. His defection will not only affect the chances of the APC in Kano, his defection has brought down APC. If you look across Nigeria today, not Kano alone, there’s nowhere in Nigeria that you don’t have the presence of Kwankwasiyya (supporters of Mr Kwankwaso). While confrontations rage on and opinions differ, one thing remains clear, we are yet to hear the last of the confrontations and defection.