A 29-year-old suspected ritualist, Taiwo Akinola, has told the police he attemped to kill his mother in a bid to become wealthy. Akinola, an alleged yahoo fraudster and member of the Aiye confraternity, said the cult’s herbalist whom he had consulted on how to be very rich directed him to kill his mother and bring her vital organs for his desire to be realised. Confirming the incident, the Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, said it occurred at No. 2, Raji Ajanaku Street, Ayobo, Lagos, where Akinola was living with his mother, Mrs Alice Iyabo Akinola and her grandchild Master Farouk, 14. Oti said that the suspect, in what appeared to be a carefully thought-out plan to kill his mother, went to her beverage’s shop attached to the house and invited her into the apartment, ostensibly for an important discussion. Akinola was also said to have sent Farouk on an errand to buy him a white handkerchief and a stick of cigarette. According to Oti, “As soon as the victim entered the house, the suspect battered her, smashing her head with a plank, a pressing iron and a UPS charger to ensure she didn’t survive the ferocious attack. When Farouk returned from the errand, he didn’t see his grandmother in the shop so he went into the house, only to see the poor woman lying in a pool of blood. Shocked by what he saw, the small boy raised an alarm which attracted neighbours to the scene. “They called the Divisional Police Officer in charge of the Ayobo Division, who arrived the scene with his team and promptly arrested the suspect. Mrs Alice Akinola was rushed to an undisclosed hospital for treatment and doctors are still battling to revive her. Meanwhile the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, Imohimi Edgal, has paid the initial hospital cost that enabled the doctors to commence treatment.” The police spokesman said that during interrogation, Akinola confessed he was asked to kill his mother so he could become very rich. “When the police searched his room, they found two calabashes with one containing human skull and the other, a mixture of dark concoction; a plank perforated with nails and stained with blood; a pressing iron stained with blood; a white handkerchief with which he wanted to scoop the victim’s blood; and a bottle containing oil and labelled Back-To-Sender,” he added. In his confessional statement, Akinola said, “I belong to the Aiye cult group. I was asked to kill my mum and come with her blood and some vital body organs if I want to make quick money. I was propelled by greed and the urge to make fast money. Look at where it has landed me now.”