The Pioneer Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, has called for stronger back-end confidentiality and security for whistle-blowers from retaliation and redress from undue harassment. He disclosed this in Abuja on Thursday at the public presentation of the 47-page first year report of the Corruption Anonymous (CORA) project by African Centre for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL). “The whistle-blower policy is new and evolving. There are issues and grey areas that need to be addressed to arrive at a more robust document. The back-end of the public interface platform needs serious tightening to make it fool-proof and ensure that it is not compromised. “Those who volunteer information need to be sure of their security and confidentiality. Whistle-blowers also need absolute protection from retaliation and redress from undue harassment. “We need to stop this corruption and use the resources we have maximally to address the problems in our nation; if not, we will continue to be in problems. This will continue for years and we will give our children, they will inherit failure; the only way to stop it is if we stop stealing and taking public money,” Ribadu said. He also blamed corruption for the lingering Boko Haram insurgency saying: “Why are the military in other parts of the world succeeding? Why are we not? Why should we allow our own insurgency to linger for 10 years? Why is Algeria, Mali stopping it in one year, why not Nigeria? I am telling you it’s all because of corruption.” Also, the Deputy Director, MacArthur Foundation, Mr. Dayo Olaide said the foundation committed itself to help Nigeria to fight corruption. Olaide, who stressed the need to strengthen Nigerians to actively embrace the anti-corruption fight efforts, said the fight could only be won with cooperation between citizens and government. He also urged the National Assembly to pass the numerous anti-corruption bills lying moribund in the assembly to strengthen the fight against corruption. The Coordinator of the centre, Mr. Chido Onumah, said that AFRICMIL launched the CORA project to engage civil society and Nigerians in tackling corruption. According to him, the project is aimed at creating awareness about whistle-blowing and making Nigerians see the need to adopt whistle blowing as a tool for reducing corruption in the country. The acting chairman of the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC), Dr Musa Abubakar, represented by an Assistant Commissioner, Mr Olayinka Aiyegbayo, said the fight against corruption should not be left for institutions alone but be embraced by all citizens to achieve lasting impacts. Also, the Acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mr Ibrahim Magu, represented by the commission’s spiokesman, Mr Wilson Uwujaren, said the CORA report would add value to existing anti-corruption policy. He said that the protection of whistle-blowers remained a major challenge EFCC was contending with and that it seems the euphoria that heralded the whistle blowing policy has subsided. “I don’t want to believe that people are no longer stashing stolen wealth in their houses and other places. It is just that people are no longer enthusiastic in coming up with information,” he said.