Social media was abuzz last week with pictures of dead cows brought into Rivers State by yet-to-be identified persons. The dead animals, said to be transported to Port Harcourt from Yobe State, were intercepted by the Chairman of Ikwerre Local Government Area, Hon. Samuel Nwanosike, at Igwurita. The council chairman invited the Divisional Police Officer of Igwurita Police Station to assist in tracking down the truck conveying the cows. When the story broke Saturday evening on social media platforms, there was panic in Port Harcourt and environs as residents were reportedly advised to shun beef. It took the intervention of the police authority and Rivers State Commissioner for health to douse tension and dismiss the rumour. It was alleged that 27 dead cows were smuggled into Rivers State by suspected youths from the northern part of the country. Those behind the story had alleged that the dead animals were poisoned and this was aimed at depopulating the southern region ahead of the 2019 elections. Both Rivers State Police Command and the State Ministry of Health described the report as mere rumour and urged members of the public to stop spreading it. The State Commissioner for Health, Prof. Princewill Chike, was quoted as saying that the Ministry was aware of the incident and has carried out proper investigations. “What happened was that the animals came from a far place and the vehicle that brought them had challenges. So, with the time spent to repair the vehicle, some of the animals died,” Prof Princewill was quoted as saying. He said there was no cause for alarm as the dead animals had been evacuated, and appealed to members of the public to go about their normal businesses, without panic. Similarly, Rivers State Police Public Relations Officer (PPRO), DSP Nnamdi Omoni, who told reporters that only 16 cows died on the road as against 27 claimed by the report, said the State police command has commenced investigations to ascertain the circumstances surrounding the incident. “It is wrong to inform the public to shun cow meat, such report or information is ill-conceived. The meat in the market have been certified healthy for human consumption. So, there is no need for panic,” Omoni stated. Meanwhile, Rivers State branch of National Butchers Union of Nigeria has denied ownership of the dead cows. Spokesman of the Association, Nazar Uba Bahago, said the dead cows do not belong to any of their members. He said although they encounter one or two losses when cows are being conveyed from Yobe State, such dead cows are buried as soon as they get to Port Harcourt. He said that none of their members sell or eat dead animals, explaining that it is against Islamic injunction to eat dead animals. “The National Chairman of our union was in Port Harcourt because of this matter. We have invited the police to investigate the matter. We are business people and will not do anything that will jeopardize our business. There is no way we can bring in sick or dead animal, to sell to the public,” he stated.