The chairman, Kogi Council of Nigeria Union  of Journalists (NUJ), Alhaji Adeiza Momoh-Jimoh, on Wednesday appealed to Governor Yahaya Bello to as a matter of urgency pay salary arrears of late Nathaniel Drisu a Chief Correspondent with Kogi-owned Graphic Newspaper. Momoh-Jimoh, who made the appeal at the burial ceremony of the deceased journalist at Odu-Ofomu in Dekina Local Government of the state said the appeal was to ameliorate the hardships being experienced by the immediate family. Late Drisu, born September 24, 1963, and a graduate of Literature from Ahmadu Bello University, Zaria, died on 10th August, 2018 and left behind an aged Mother, wife and three children. Represented by Mr Friday Idachaba, chairman, Correspondents' Chapel of NUJ, Momoh-Jimoh said the appeal for payment of the salary arrears and consolidated benefits to the deceased journalist’s family had become necessary. "My appeal today, is that Kogi State Government should as a matter of urgency, pay the accumulated salaries owed Mr Drisu to the immediate family to cushion the effects of this sudden and painful death", he said. The chairman advised working Journalists in the state and friends of the deceased not to abandon the family but accord the family necessary support as a demonstration of love for the fallen colleague. The chairman noted that death being a necessary end would come when it comes and urged Journalists to take his demise as an act of God. Momoh-Jimoh described Drisu's death as a big blow to the journalism profession in the state saying that he was gentle, trustworthy and unassuming professional who brought his wealth of experience to bear on his profession. Earlier in his homily, Rev. Fr Michael Osannaiye, Assistant Parish Priest, St. Michael, Raphael and Gabriel Catholic Church, Gadumo-Lokoja reminded Christians on the need to always be prepared for death to meet with their creator through righteous living. Osannaiye explained that no one knew when death would strike but emphasised that Jesus Christ remained the hope of all believers. He described the late journalist as one whose commitment in the church would be greatly missed and urged his family to lend a helping hand in bringing up the children he left behind.