Mrs Rebecca Sharibu, mother of Leah, said she is hopeful that her daughter will return to her soon after listening to the 35 seconds audio message released by her daughter’s abductors (Boko Haram). She said the picture of Leah in the audio released by TheCable, had allayed her fear that Leah is dead. "I cried so much and thanked Almighty God for keeping her alive" she said. Mrs. Sharibu said, when she started listening to the video, she noticed how stressed and emaciated her daughter was in the clip. "From her face, I noticed that she's became extremely thin and distressed. I just started crying," she revealed. She said that despite Leah's predicament, she still pleaded with people to help her family overcome their challenging situation. "She pleaded with members of the public to help me, her father and her younger brother, Donald. She's aware of the condition we found ourselves," she sobbed. Mrs. Sharibu also pleaded with President Muhammadu Buhari-led federal government not to betray her daughter's confidence of being released from the insurgents’ den. "Today, she spent exactly six months and eight days in captivity. I am pleading with Mr President to do everything possible and secure her release soon as she had also pleaded", she added. Also speaking, her 13-year-old younger brother, Donald Sharibu, wished that Leah can also read on how much he missed her. "I have never being myself ever since she was held captive. I love her so much, and we all missed her", he said. He called on the insurgents to have mercy on his sister and release her and all other people they held captive. "My sister is a very good girl; she has been nice to me and everyone around her. They should release her please", he added. According to the 35 seconds audio message released by Cable, Leah Sharibu who spoke in Hausa language said "I am Leah Sheribu, the girl that was abducted in GGSS Dapchi. I am calling on the government and people of goodwill to intervene to get me out of my current situation. "I also plead to members of the public to help my mother, my father, my younger brother and relatives. "Kindly help me out of my predicament. I am begging you to treat me with compassion. I am calling on the government, particularly the President to pity me and get me out of this serious situation. Thank you." Leah Sharibu was abducted in February 2018 along with 119 other students and she was the only girl that remained in captivity after 104 were released seven months ago.