The ruling APC, yesterday, explained the reasons why Senator Bukola Saraki can’t continue as Senate President. The APC, through its Acting National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Yekini Nabena, said Saraki was not fit for the senate presidency as he had been involved in several controversies since his alleged usurpation of the seat through what it called a “wicked conspiracy with members of the opposition PDP.” Nabena cited Saraki’s case with the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) for alleged false declaration of assets, the alleged conspiracy with his deputy to alter the rules of the senate and his purported link to the deadly armed robbery which wasted many lives in Offa to justify the party’s views. The party said the position of the Senate President was reserved for the best of the best, experienced and exemplary politicians in every democratic country. The statement read, “Having suffered under the 16-year misrule of the PDP, Dr. Saraki will go down in our country’s history as the worst Senate President Nigeria has had the misfortune to have. Dr. Saraki is definitely not our good example for political leadership. “All over the world, the leadership of the legislature is provided by the political party with majority members. But Dr. Saraki would in the absence of many members of his former party, the APC, connive and conspire with members of the opposition PDP to emerge Senate President, and in the process trade off the Deputy Senate President position to the opposition PDP - a political betrayal and treachery even the devil would be envious of. “Even at this time, he has defected to the opposition PDP, and with APC still in the majority in the senate, Dr. Saraki still has the impudence to present himself as the Senate President. Political ambition should be made of nobler stuff. “One is of course not surprised as Dr. Saraki’s greed, selfishness, treachery, disregard for protocol and constituted authority is well-reported. In terms of treachery, Dr. Saraki’s public humiliation of his late father and sister comes readily to mind. “A traitor will always be a traitor, however the time and place. The senate must do everything possible to put Dr. Saraki where he rightly belongs - the back seat. He is definitely not a fit and proper person to preside over the country’s upper and revered legislative house.”