President Muhammadu Buhari has urged Nigerians to rise above personal, group, sectarian and other interests, and promote harmony and tolerance among themselves at all times. In his Sallah message, Buhari urged all Muslims to use the occasion for sober reflection and self-examination, and strive to be good ambassadors of their religion by upholding high moral values. He reminded Muslims that this felicitous occasion of Eid el-Adha is a remembrance of the submission of Prophet Ibrahim Alaihis-Salam to Allah, his Creator, by which he taught the world the value of sacrifice in relating with one another, and when it comes to nation-building. “We must sacrifice for others and remember always those who are less fortunate than ourselves,” Buhari said in the message issued by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu. The president said religion is a major factor in influencing human behaviour towards good conduct and actions. He, however, regretted that selfishness, greed and corruption have overwhelmed human souls to the extent that people abandon their religious beliefs in pursuit of their greed. The president stressed that fighting corruption is a task that must be done in order to protect the larger interests of the ordinary Nigerians who are the worst victims of diseases, poverty, malnutrition and other afflictions. He said surrendering to corruption is not an option because it destroys society and progress of nations. According to President Buhari, “Even if some people hate you for fighting corruption, you should not chicken out from the task as a leader because doing so is a betrayal of public trust.” On the current economic challenges facing Nigerians, the President reassured them that such are temporary because the welfare of the people is the main thrust of the change agenda of the administration. President Buhari cited the many initiatives unfolded by the administration under the Social Investment Programme (SIP) among which was the recent decision to distribute recovered stolen funds to the poor against the past practices of re-looting such funds by some people in authority.  CAN felicitates Muslims By Abbas Jimoh The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) has felicitated the Muslim Ummah in the country as they celebrate this year Eid al-Adha otherwise known as the Festival of Sacrifice. President of CAN, Dr. Samson Ayokunle, said yesterday in a statement that the festival is to commemorate the willingness of Abraham to sacrifice his son as an act of obedience to God who commanded him to do so. “CAN urges all Nigerian Muslims to remember this sacrificial lifestyle of Abraham as they rejoice and celebrate. They should know that no sacrifice is too great to promote peace, harmony, love, unity, forgiveness and accommodation in their relationship with those who are non-Muslims. “God must have reasons for allowing both Christianity and Islam to co-exist in the country. We appeal to the adherents of both religions to embrace peace and love. Once this is done, most of the ongoing killings in Nigeria will become history; after all both religions traced their sources to Father Abraham,” Ayokunle said in the statement signed by his spokesman, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji. According to him, the nation is in another election year, advising politicians to stop vote buying, violence, blood-letting and other evils associated with campaign and election.  Saraki tasks Nigerians on brotherhood By Musa Abdullahi Krishi Senate President Bukola Saraki urged Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of brotherhood and peaceful coexistence in their relationship during Sallah celebration and beyond. Saraki made the call in his Eid-el-Kabir message to Muslim faithful in the country, signed by his Special Adviser (Media and Publicity), Yusuph Olaniyonu, in Abuja. He further enjoined Nigerians to increase their efforts in charitable endeavours, perseverance and spiritual intercession for the nation. The Senate President urged Nigerians to further devote their prayers at the Eid praying grounds to the call on Allah to restore peace in all parts of the country, strengthen the unity and rebuild the economy.  Dogara preaches love, tolerance By Ozibo Ozibo Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, has enjoined the Muslim community and Nigerians to imbibe the spirit of sacrifice, love and tolerance for the peace and unity of Nigeria. He stated this in Abuja on Monday in his goodwill message to Muslims to mark the Eid el-kabir. The Speaker said: “While rejoicing with our Muslim brothers on this auspicious occasion of Eid el-Kabir celebration, which symbolises sacrifice and obedience, I wish to enjoin all people of goodwill to be steadfast in love for one another and demonstrate renewed commitment to the Nigerian project in order to make our society ideal for all and towards the fulfilment of the country’s great potentials.”  Secondus, Atiku: Pray for Nigeria By Saawua Terzungwe The Chairman of the ‎Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Prince Uche Secondus and former Vice President Atiku Abubakar have called on Muslims and all Nigerians to use the occasion of Eid el-Kabir to pray for unity of the country. Secondus in a Sallah message yesterday by his Media Aide, Mr Ike Abonyi argued that ‎Nigeria was in a precarious situation and needed special prayers for peace and stability. ‎Similarly, former Vice President Atiku Abubakar in a Sallah message yesterday by his Media Office, said Muslims should use the occasion to advance the cause of love amongst the people. Atiku advised Muslims to remain vigilant against the influence of violent extremism which he said has been used by misguided elements to portray Islam in bad light.  NLC urges Muslims to imbibe Eid virtues By Mustapha Suleiman The Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has urged Muslims to imbibe the virtues of Eid el-Kabir. NLC President Ayuba Wabba in a statement said that Eid-el Kabir symbolises sacrifice, discipline, faith, give and take, love of God and love for neighbours, obedience to and total submission to God. Wabba said: “There is no time more auspicious than now for us to imbibe these qualities that we have severe challenges in the polity including frightening political disputations, massive loss of lives due to routine conflicts across the country, resurgence of mutual suspicions, sectarian/hate tendencies, violence, and general threats to our oneness and sovereignty.” He enjoined Nigerians not to allow the machinations of a selfish few who seek power at all costs to prevail in the polity.  NSCDC deploys 30,000 By Bamas Victoria The Commandant General of the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC), Abdullahi Gana Muhammadu, has ordered the deployment of 30, 000 personnel across the nation for  Eid el-kabir celebration. NSCDC spokesman Emmanuel Okeh said in a statement yesterday that the CG ordered the deployment of the personnel to prayer grounds, shopping centres, malls, recreation centres, black spots and areas considered to be vulnerable. He also congratulated Muslims and urged them to emulate the qualities of “Prophet Muhammad by living an exemplary life that depicts their true practice by preaching and praying for peace in the nation.”