The National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress, (APC), Adams Oshiomhole yesterday told Nigerians not to be deceived by the antics of some federal lawmakers who recently defected to the Peoples Democratic Party. Oshiomhole, who received defected members of Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) into the ruling party added that the motives of the lawmakers were individualistic and selfish. He made this known at a rally organised by the APC in Abakaliki. Some of the decampees are; Senator Sunny Ogboji, former Minister of Power and Steel, Goody Ogbaga, former Secretary to the State Government, Ifeanyi Odoh and former Speaker of the Ebonyi State House of Assembly, Augustine Nwankwegu. According to him, the decamped lawmakers plan was to portray the government of President Muhammadu Buhari in bad light, “but that is untrue. They only defected because they wanted to continue looting the treasury”. “So l urge Nigerians to be wise, don’t even be deceived by their antics, be more careful because this season, people are spreading false messages against our president. Oshiomhole assured Nigerians that the federal government is ready to address the problems confronting the nation. He noted that President Buhari is committed to the fight against corruption. “We have a problem and we must confront those problems. Criminals must be dealt with individually and government at all levels must work hard to protect every Nigerian regardless of tribe or religion”, he said. He further urged the people of the South-east to vote for APC and President Buhari in next year’s election, saying he has delivered democracy dividends to the zone. “Today, the second Niger bridge has taken off. Buhari has remembered the Southeast which did not give him more than 10 per cent in 2015, imagine what he will do if you give him 85per cent in 2019,” he said. The Minister of Science and Technology, Dr.Ogbonnaya Onu, in his remarks told the people of the South-east not to repeat the mistake of 2015. “Today, I want them to compare the 16 years of PDP and relate it with just three years of APC. The three years of APC is greater than the 16 years of PDP”, he said. Dr. Onu noted that robotics and artificial intelligence which form the new face of technology in the world would to be established in the South-east. “The time has come for the South-east to be in the mainstream of Nigerian politics by voting for President Buhari and APC in 2019,” he added. He urged the people not to give their PVCs to anyone but to guide it jealously as it is the only way they can return President Buhari in 2019. Former governor of Abịa State, Orji Uzor Kalu, said the new Niger bridge, which the PDP could not construct in 16 years, has now reached 53 per cent completion. He also noted that work is progressing on the two major highways in the zone; the Onitsha to Enugu road and the Enugu-Port Harcourt expressway. According to him, the South-east will give the president and APC majority of its votes in 2019, to repay him “for all the projects and democracy dividends he has magnanimously cited in the zone”. The rally which was scheduled to hold at the Pa Oruta Ngele stadium, Abakaliki, was moved to a playground near the Enugu-Abakaliki expressway, following the refusal of the state government to grant the party permission to use the stadium.