Gov. Ayodele Fayose said on Tuesday said that all the ongoing capital  projects will be completed and inaugurated before vacating office on  Oct. 16. The News Agency of Nigeria, (NAN) reports that the governor, made the  promise while speaking at 2018 edition of the Annual Udiroko Festival  in Ado Ekiti, the state capital. The governor said he had resolved to complete all ongoing projects in  consonance with his promise while being sworn-in for a second term in  office not to abandon any project embarked upon. According to him, his critics who were allegedly saying he embarked  on employment of new hands into the state public service at the tail end  of his tenure should also have asked him not to continue with projects  he started. He listed the capital projects so far completed and ongoing to  include the One-Kilometre overhead bridge in Ado Ekiti, the new state  High Court complex, the new Governor’s office and the new Ministry of  Finance complex. He listed others to include the new Ultra-Modern Kings Market in Ado  Ekiti and the Amphi Theatre, the Banquet Hall at the Ewi’s palace and  the dualization of virtually all the 16 Local Goverment Headquarters  among others. NAN reports that he had, at about 3:00p.m arrived the venue into the  waiting hands of cheering crowd of residents singing his praises. Fayose said there was no known law in the country that says a sitting  governor must stop performing the functions attached to his office once  his party his preparing to wind down or have election decided agaist  it. He told the gathering that the about 200- lock up shops at the new  Kings market would be shared to willing traders before the end of the  week. He pledged that those traders initially displaced as a result of the  fire incident that razed the old market would be given preferential  treatment. NAN reports that the governor appreciated the people of Ado Ekiti for  standing by his party during the last governorship poll, regretting,  however, that certain forces allegedly did not allow their votes to  count. He assured them that the ruling party in the state led him would use all normal and legal means to reclaim the stolen mandate. In his response, the Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Adeyemo Adejugbe thanked  the governor for what he termed as “sudden turn around” of the state  capital, saying close to 80 per cent of the projects carried out by  Fayose during his second term in office were concentrated in Ado Ekiti,  thereby making his reign memorable. Also speaking, legal luminary and founder of Afe Babalola Universiyy,  Chief Afe Babalola, who is also a leading son of the ancient city,  expressed delight at the volume of the people that trooped out to  celebrate the festival. Earlier in a welcome address, the Chairman , National Caretaker  Committee of the Ado Ekiti Progressive Union, Chief Bayo Ogunmodimu said  the Udiroko Festival marked the begininig of another traditional year  for the sons and daughters of Ado Ekiti. He said that it was also being used as a rallying point and unifying  factor for all age groups and all local associations and clubs in the  town. He thanked the state government for the modern strucures erected in  the palace and wished the outgoing governor well in his future  endeavours.(NAN)