In response to a changing and challenging context, the Asset Management Corporation of Nigeria is intensifying a range of strategic measures to achieve faster outcomes in debt recovery, restructuring, and disposal of assets as well as other areas critical to its mandate, it said in a statement. Strategies it said include the immediate steps such as an enhanced debt recovery drive as well as engaging the National Assembly on making the necessary adjustment to the AMCON law to make it more difficult for uncooperative debtors to continue to hide behind legal technicalities. The measures according to the statement are designed to build on recent successes such as the successful turnaround of Aero Contractors, Arik Air and Peugeot Automobile of Nigeria (PAN) which before AMCON’s takeover had become financially distressed after years of slipshod governance, poor staff morale, and declining services. Another notable milestone it said is the turnaround and sale of the one-million-ton steel rolling factory complex in Ovwian-Aladja, Delta State. “The decades-old moribund multi-billion dollar firm, formerly known as Delta Steel Company now under the management of Premium Steel Company is now operational. AMCON tackled the longstanding problem of unpaid workers’ entitlements with payment of salaries and gratuity arrears of over 1,600 staff” it said. The new measures it said which have assumed a measure of urgency because of the corporation’s imminent 2023 sunset clause, are necessitated by the significant challenges posed by the failure of obligors (debtors) who have failed to meet their obligations to AMCON. However, analysts at Financial Derivatives Company (FDC) have predicted that the Corporation’s sunset clause will be extended. They suggest that AMCON had made such a positive impact on the economy in the eight years of its existence that it should be allowed to continue operations after 2023. They argued that but for the establishment of AMCON: “10 affected banks would have collapsed; N9 trillion of total assets would have been wiped-off; contagion would have affected healthy banks; depositors would have lost over N3 trillion (NDIC insured deposits not enough to compensate for losses) and inevitable run on banks.”