The immediate past Minister of National Planning and chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kwara state, Prof. Abubakar Sulaiman, has explained that his decision to work with the Senate President, Dr. Bukola Saraki, the state governor, Abdulfatah Ahmed and the new defectors into the party would not derail his pursuance of the good of Kwara state. Sulaiman, one of the fiercest critics of Saraki, has welcomed the defectors into the party and promised to work with them. He met with Governor Ahmed at the Government House on Saturday alongside other PDP elders where the Governor promised fairness, equity and justice. In a statement made available to our correspondent, the former Minister said the gale of defections to PDP should be seen as "a welcome development, within the context of a broader reality" even though it was never anticipated. The Professor of Political Science said as an ardent party man, he is constrained "to live and work for the good of my party", saying he had gotten assurance from the party's leadership in Abuja and the defectors to treat everyone equally. He said, "It is imperative to note, that while I am not oblivious of the local peculiarity, it is of uttermost neccessity then, that we must not forget that we have a greater monster to confront at the centre. "My new association, by virtue of the coalition would not impune on my character and vision in any way. I stand by our collective agenda. I stand for the good of Kwara State. "We must remain resolute and be determined to change our society for the betterment of our children and generations unborn. Let no one be under any illusion that all is well. There is indeed a long way to go. "I can assure you that I have gotten enough assurance from our party leadership, our brothers and sisters that have joined us. An assurance, that every member of the party shall be treated equally regardless of your status and position". Sulaiman who is a governorship aspirant in the coming election added, "Arrangements for proper re-integration and harmonious co-existence continues. I would remain steadfast in the struggle, keep to my words and live within the dictates of Almighty God. Your mandate remains a trust. I shall uphold it till the last day of my life".