Business activities were paralysed in Sokoto State yesterday after a huge crowd took to the street to welcome Senator Alhaji Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko, the leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Wamakko, a former governor of the state, was coming home for the first time since the defection of his successor and the incumbent governor of the state, Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) on Wednesday. Our correspondents observed supporters of the former governor in their thousands trooping to receive him at Sultan Abubakar III International Airport as early as 9am, as his plane was billed to land at 11am, causing a serious traffic gridlock across the state metropolis. At the airport, the surging crowd forced its way onto the tarmac despite efforts by combined security agents to stop it. The development forced the plane that brought the senator to delay its landing for about 20 minutes, as it hovered in the air, awaiting the tarmac to be cleared. When it finally landed, the supporters gave the plane a hot chase, chanting “Baba, Oyoyo”.  When he finally alighted, it took about five hours before he could reach his house at Gawon Nama, a distance of about 15 minutes drive. Addressing the party supporters at his residence, Wamakko expressed appreciation to the people of the state for always being there for him, saying it was not a fight between him and his younger brother (Tambuwal) but between progressives and members of the PDP. He said all those who defected to the PDP would regret their action, just as he opined that the defection in the state was a gang up against him and President Muhammadu Buhari, adding that it would not work. He described Sokoto as  APC state, saying the people of the state are in love with Buhari and the party. Reacting to comments by Governor Tambuwal that the APC government had not done anything to the people of the state, Wamakko described it as political gimmick. “Some of them have left Alu (as he is fondly called in Sokoto) but their parents are still with Alu,” he said. He expressed President Buhari’s goodwill message to the people of the state and his plans for them. Wamakko had, following Tambuwal’s defection to the PDP, vowed to prove that the state was still an APC state and that he was the recognised leader of the party there.