The Nigerian mission in Libya has announced the repatriation of a new set of 165 Nigerian migrants from Libya. The mission's Charge d’Affaires, Mr Alex Kefas, who disclosed this while briefing newsmen in Abuja on Thursday said the returnees were billed to arrive Lagos today. He said 109 out of the migrants were part of those whose video clip surfaced online recently, requesting assistance from the federal government. “And today, we are also expecting the arrival of 165 irregular migrants that are being repatriated here today. So, out of this number, we have 109. “These 109 that some weeks ago, sent a recorded video that went viral, that they appealled to Mr President and some religious leaders to come to their help. We are happy that they are in this very group that will be coming today. That is great news,” Kefas said. According to him, a total number of 3,801 irregular Nigerian migrants have been repatriated from Libya in recent time. Kefas said the situation of Nigerian migrants in that country was so pathetic that the mission usually takes the pregnant ones among them to hospitals for delivery. “We have been doing our best. Of course, it costs us some of our resources to handle the numbers of migrants on daily basis. On several occasions, some of them from the embassy were rushed to the hospitals to deliver babies. So, that is to tell you the magnitude of what the mission has been going through,” Kefas lamented. Kefas also narrated a story of a Nigerian migrant who was rescued on the high sea by a Libyan family at the age of 14, saying that the man and his wife took good care of her for two years. Kefas further said the mission will continue to do its best for the interest of Nigerian nationals. As part of the Nigerian Mission’s efforts in handling the migration issue, Kefas said he paid a courtesy call on the Chief of Mission of the International Organization for Migration (IOM) in Libya. Kefas said he made several proposals to the IOM Chief of Mission on how to alleviate the sufferings of Nigerian nationals who are scattered in several detention centers in Libya.