The Police Special Fraud Unit (SFU) on Thursday in Lagos arraigned three businessmen over alleged theft of helicopter spare parts worth $46,940   (about N16,898,400). The accused –  Anietei Obong, Akaninyene Okpoho and James Dottie – were charged with stealing the parts from Bristol Helicopters Nig. Ltd. located at the Muritala Mohammed International Airport (MMIA), Ikeja. They, however, pleaded not guilty to the five-count  charge before Justice Oyindamola Ogala of the Lagos State High Court sitting in Ikeja. The men, whose addresses were not provided, are standing trial for stealing, conspiracy to effect an unlawful purpose, forgery of incorporation documents and uttering of false incorporation documents. The SFU Prosecutor, Mr Benneth Benedict, said that the trio committed the offences from 2016 to 2017 at the premises of the Bristol Helicopters Nig. Ltd. at the General Aviation Terminal, MMIA, Ikeja. “The defendants stole by fraudulently converting to their use and benefit, several helicopter spare parts. “The spare parts include – integrated instrument display, transceiver, valve kit, NG dual indicator, symbol generator and tail rotor servo,’’ Benedict submitted. He listed the other spare parts to include tail rotor blade, fuel control unit, antenna radar and display unit. “The businessmen conspired to effect the unlawful and unauthorised sale of the several helicopter spare parts to one Mr Frank of Great Lake Air Support, a company in the U.S. “The defendants forged a registered company incorporation name as well as documents entitled ‘Sales Invoice’ and ‘Export Invoice’ in the company name of Sammy Global Ltd. “They used the false documents to export and sell the several spare parts to Frank, their U.S.-based buyer,” Benedict said. The prosecutor added that the accused uttered the false documents through the use of computer systems stationed in Lagos. The offences contravene Sections 383(1), 390(9), 465, 467(2)(i) and 518(6) of the Criminal Code, 2004. Following the plea of the accused, Benedict urged the court to remand them in prison and fix a date for substantive trial. Counsel to Obong and Okpoho, Mr Alli Abbah, and Counsel to Dottie, Mr Tope Temokun, both prayed the court for a short adjournment to enable them to apply for bail for the accused. The judge remanded the accused in prison, and adjourned the case until Sept. 11 for ruling on their bail applications.