An array of tradition and culture played out in Taraba State when the state government formally presented Staff of Office to fifty chiefs that were either upgraded or newly appointed. In all, 10 upgraded and 40 newly appointed chiefs across 16 local government areas were honoured by the state Governor Darius Ishaku at the epoch ceremony in Jalingo, the state capital. The upgraded chiefs are: Alhaji Aliyu Yusuf, Dakkka Chiefdom, Alhaji Ado Adamu, Mazong Mumuye Chiefdom, Alhaji Idi Ciroma, Gassol Chiefdom, Alhaji Abubakar Haruna, Kirim Wurkum Chiefdom, Alhaji Abubakar Buban Yala, Kwaji Chiefdom and Alhaji Mohmmed Gidado, Misa Bakundi Chiefdom. Others are Alhaji Sani Suleiman Duna, Mutum Biyu Chiefdom, Alhaji Abubakar Umar Danburan, Kunini chiefdom, Alhaji Salihu Abubakar Dan Bawuro, Ibi Chiefdom and Mr Samalai Maiwuya, Kurmi Chiefdom. Also, six 1st class chiefs as well as dignitaries and well-wishes from all walks of life graced the occasion giving the ceremony its well-deserved clout. Dressed in colourful and attractive traditional regalia with a large a large subject, each monarch in a way was trying to outshine the other in a frenzy of music and dances. In fact, it was a mini durbar of some sort. But away from the fanfare, Governor Ishaku charged the chiefs to promote peaceful co-existence among their subjects and also work towards checking insecurity in their communities. He said security challenges facing the state had compelled him to create new chiefdoms and upgrade the existing ones in order to help in addressing matter. Also, the governor warned all traditional rulers against engaging in party politics pointing out that their position is purely traditional and custodian of culture in their respective domains. “As traditional rulers, you must live above board and carry every one along in the discharge of your function and also stay away from party politics more especially that 2019 general election is approaching,” he warned. According to him, the new chiefdoms and upgrades was to strengthen the traditional institution in the state, a gesture in line with his administration’s rescue agenda in meeting legitimate yearnings and aspirations of the people. He pointed out that the population growth of the state required for an urgent review of the traditional institutions to accommodate the development and give the people sense of belonging. The Permanent Secretary, Taraba State Bureau for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Alhaji Bello Yero, urged the traditional rulers to reciprocate the gesture by ensuring peace in their domains for the good of the state. He further stated that said the creation of the chiefdoms was a holistic approach that would accord citizens the privilege to feel free and independently grow according to their traditional norms. Yero said the occasion would go into annals of history of the state and Nigeria at large, as one event that restored the hope, dignity and sovereignty to people at the grass roots. The Permanent Secretary explained that various communities across the state have been craving for independence and elevation of their traditional status and what the government did was the sustainability of their cultural heritage. He said various communities have now being according privilege to feel free and independently grow according to their traditional norms, values and aspirations. Speaking on behalf of the monarchs, the Chief of Mutum-Biyu, Alhaji Sani Suleiman, commended the governor for his courage and foresight in creating additional chiefdoms and upgrading others.