Anka Emirate in Zamfara says it will merge scattered Fulani  settlements into single towns and villages to complement the Federal  Government’s effort in tackling insecurity in the area. The Emir of Anka and Chairman of Zamfara Council of Chiefs, Alhaji  Attahiru Ahmad said this while speaking with newsmen in Anka on  Thursday. Ahmad said the system was part of proposed measures by the emirate to  complement government in promoting security, peace and stability in the  area. “What we are proposing is like a ranching system that the Federal  Government proposed to address farmers/herdsmen clashes in the country. “We want to reduce large number of scattered Fulani settlements into  towns and villages, we think this will assist in addressing security  challenges in this area. “We think this will assist in tracing new herders coming to our area and to easily identify all Fulani settlements in this area. “We have been advising Fulanis on this even before now, because apart  from its impact on security, it will also be easy for government to  provide social amenities for them,’’ he said. According to him, we are making arrangements on how to contact authorities to actualise this proposal. The traditional ruler said the move became necessary due to the  security challenges we are facing, adding “I remember the Emir of  Argungu in Kebbi state introduce something like this in his area and it  yielded positive result,’’ he said. The emir also lauded the Federal Government for the deployment of  security troops to the area, saying that both bandits attack and  kidnapping had reduced. “The only area we are having few challenges in Anka are in Southern  Wuya and Eastern parts of Bagega, where we have boundaries with Bungudu  and Maru Local Governments and a big forest that shares boundaries with  Birnin-Gwari in Kaduna, Bena in Kebbi and some parts of Niger state,’’  he said. The emir added that apart from hundreds of widows and orphans of  bandits’ attacks in the area, more than 29,000 persons had been  displaced from their communities in the area. He commended Anka Emirate Foundation for supporting victims of  attacks in the area with food items as well as healthcare services.  (NAN)