Former Governor of Abia State and chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Dr. Orji Kalu has accepted the traditional title of “Dan Baiwan Hausa” to be conferred on him by Emir of Daura, Alhaji Umar Farouk Umar. The monarch in a letter dated August 9, 2018, disclosed his intention to turban the politician-cum business mogul with the prestigious title. Kalu, who is presently abroad for medical-checkup, in a statement by his media office said the honour, will encourage him to sustain his good works in all realms of life. The APC chieftain stressed that the Emir has demonstrated his passion and commitment to a united and indivisible Nigeria, adding that regardless of age, tribe, religion and political affiliation, Nigerians must bond. The statement signed by his Special Adviser, Prince Kunle Oyewumi said the APC chieftain and staunch supporter of President Muhammadu Buhari, accepted to be turbaned during the Eid -el Kabir festive period vide a letter signed by him, dated August 16, 2018 and addressed to the Emir of Daura. He said, "I received with so much excitement, a letter of conferment of traditional title of Dan Baiwan Hausa on me by the Daura Emirate Council headed by Emir of Daura, Alhaji (Dr.) Umar Farouk Umar. “The honour is timely and encouraging. “I am a detribalized Nigerian. This is a good compensation for continually spreading the message of peace and unity across the nation. “We must continue to build friendship and relationships beyond our communities. “I was born in Aba, I had my university education in Maiduguri and Lagos is my business base. I have workers from different ethnic groups and religions. Nigerians should see themselves as one. "I am appreciative of the recognition of my contributions to nation building and I pledge my continued loyalty to Daura Emirate Council, Katsina State and Nigeria at large" It will be recalled that during Kalu’s stint as Governor of Abia State,  President Muhammadu Buhari was conferred with a chieftaincy title in Igbere, during his visit to Kalu’s country home in 2003. President Muhammadu Buhari was equally alongside former President Ibrahim Babangida and Chief Chukwuemeka Odimegwu-Ojukwu conferred with a doctorate degree by Abia State University. Kalu is expected to return to the country for the historic event before departing for Europe for completion of his medicals.