Irate youth on Wednesday attacked a police patrol team along College Road, Ifako Ijaiye area of Lagos and killed a policeman in the process. The mob also vandalized a patrol van and injured three other policemen. It was learnt that five persons who took part in the attack on the patrol team have been arrested. Police said that those arrested are being detained at the State Criminal Investigation Department (SCID) in Yaba. Lagos State Police Public Relations Officer, Chike Oti, who confirmed the attack said, on August 28, 2018, at about 11am, at College Road, Ifako Ijaiye, Ogba, Lagos, a police patrol team stationed at a black spot in the aforementioned location was attacked by an irate mob for a yet to be determined reason. Oti said that in the process, Sergeant Esiabor Collins with service number 260326, was attacked and killed. He said also, a patrol vehicle which the police team was patrolling with was not spared by the rampaging mob which they vandalised. He said: "Preliminary investigation into the incident revealed that the mob, mainly youths had earlier that morning gone to Area 'G' Command, Ogba with the intention to overrun the police formation and commit arson but found it impregnable. However, the Area Commander in-charge, spoke to them, promising to cause an investigation into their grievances which bothered on the death of a youth who allegedly died yesterday, two weeks after an alleged encounter with some policemen. "At this juncture, it must be clearly stated that the police authorities in the state are unaware of any encounter with the deceased as no formal complaint was received to that effect. "The Commissioner of Police notes that the penchant to take laws into own hands by some people who easily constitute themselves into a mob is becoming worrisome to say the least." He said that the  Command wishes to state that the deceased officer and indeed the entire patrol team had the option of defending themselves with their firearms against the mob but chose to show restraint in face of provocation but unfortunately the rampaging mob never allowed them that option hence Sgt. Collins paid the supreme price. The Commissioner of Police, Lagos State, CP Edgal Imohimi, noted that policemen in the state had on several occasions shown restraints in the face of provocative actions. He therefore warns that policemen may be forced to use their firearms to defend themselves and other people about being killed by a mob and in the protection of government assets. "He urges parents to warn their children to refrain from such acts which according to him may lead to a breach of the peace and unnecessary bloodletting," he added.