At least 14 million pebbles were thrown at the devil yesterday, but the number will likely to be higher as some pilgrims toss a few extra for good measure. Early yesterday morning at Muzdalifah on the outskirts of Mina, millions of Hajj pilgrims were squatting on the ground meticulously picking the pebbles for the day’s ritual - Ramy Al Jamarat. "I want them to feel good when I throw them," says a boy at one of the nearby Mina camps. His dad encourages him, but tells him to keep the pebbles small. Today (Tuesday) many of the pilgrims walking from Muzdalifah continued their trek through a convoluted network of walkways to the ritual site. The paths funnel thousands of pilgrims hourly, each clutching seven pebbles in their hand and keeping one target in mind: Satan. As they approach the ramp to the first floor of the multi-levelled building, the pace quickens. The clicks as pebbles shift in thousands of hands can be heard even far back from the long oval wall that represents the devil. The throwing distance is a personal preference. Some stand far back and toss them from more than 10 metres, others get as close as possible to the railings. Unlucky taller pilgrims who move towards the front often get a pebble to the head, but it doesn’t stop the flurry of chucks. “Allahu Akbar, Allahu Akbar,” an Egyptian man screams as he rapid-fires his seven pebbles at the Jamarat wall. Rage can be seen in some, others appear overwhelmed with vengeance, but all are highly emotional. Pilgrims will return several more times over Eid to continue the stoning. After tossing the pebbles, pilgrims descend from the Ramy Al Jamarat, having accomplished one of the great steps of the pilgrimage. Tossing the pebbles is a transformative experience, both spiritually and physically, as pilgrims are now required to cut their hair. On the ramp that stretches down from Ramy Al Jamarat, clumps of every colour of hair lay discarded on the floor. But there isn’t a barber in sight but many have come prepared. With heads hanging over garbage bins, other pilgrims take blades to the tufts of hair of the willing. Although it’s only mandatory for men to cut hair short, most opt to shave it to signify their coming transformation into becoming a Hajji. For many, it’s a feeling of being born anew. A man holds his newly shaved head, it’s not pinpoint work as patches of longer hair are still visible but he rubs his hand on his scalp. “It feels good,” he jokes with his friends. Culled from thenational.ae