Vice President Prof. Yemi Osinbajo and the governor of Lagos, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode are among a team of speakers billed to address over 5,000 teeming youths who are prospect to hold positions in both public and private space in Nigeria next month. The event themed: "The Nigerian Dream: Collective Building for Today and Tomorrow" and being organised by a non-political group “The Ambassdors” is billed for September 8 at the Main Auditorium of the University of Lagos. According to the Convener and Project Lead, Joshua Oyeniyi, the event is aimed at charting a new course for the youth in the Nigerian project. “The Ambassadors Summit is arguably the most consistent platform in South Western Nigeria for the three ‘E’s of our mission, called Engagement, Enlightenment and Empowerment. “Since 2014, we have continued to stay true to our vision to raise sterling Nigerian leaders across diverse fields of endeavours who will have the highest level of ethics, values and convictions necessary to building a vibrant nation and can represent us well anywhere in the world. "This year, which is a pre-election year, we have decided to engage the current crop of leaders and those aspiring for public offices with a theme that will stimulate deep conversations and canvass a coalition of all Nigerians for the realization of the Nigeria of our dream,” Ojeniyi said. He added that “the Nigerian Dream can be curated, developed and consciously implemented by every stratum of leadership, including the private sector and the citizenry to deliver quality living standards for Nigerians, living and unborn." Former Governor of Cross River State, Donald Duke is expected to deliver a special keynote speech at the event. Other speakers expected include Presidential Aspirants such as Prof. Kingsley Moghalu, Mathias Tsado, Ahmed Buhari, Tope Fasua, David Esosa Ize-Iyamu, Dr Kola Christwealth, Eunice Atuejide, Dr Elishama Ideh, as well as civic leadership speakers including Rev. Mrs Ijeoma Emeribe, Olasimbo Ojuroye, Dr. Ayo Ogunsan, and Dr. Kriz David, among others.