The flag-off of N22.699 billion reconstruction of Mayo-Belwa-Jada-Ganye-Toungo road on Saturday has drawn reactions from residents of the area. The area is home to a presidential aspirant former Vice President Atiku Abubakar. The defunct Petroleum Trust Fund (PTF), under leadership of Muhammadu Buhari, started rehabilitation two decades ago and since then the road did not receive any attention even President Olusegun Obasanjo when Atiku was VP for eight years. The road had been at the centre of political campaigns since 2003 with many blaming it on Atiku and other powerful elites who hailed from the area including former PDP chairman, Bamanga Tukur and the influential aide to then President Jonathan, Ambassador Hassan Tukur. A resident, Gambo Hardo said the road rehabilitation could affect the outcome of 2019 election not only in Toungo, Jada, Ganye and Mayo-Belwa but also in some communities in Taraba State. “Our kinsman should have influenced this project when he was in government, he could have taken the credit,” a resident Garbajo said. At the ceremony, the Minister of State for Power, Works and Housing, Mustafa Shehuri said the 112 kilometres road project was in fulfilment of the APC campaign promises to the people of the area. “The 112 kilometre road which terminates at Toungo serves as a vital link between Taraba State and the Republic of Cameroon, as well as, to the Mambilla Hydro Power Plant, the Gashaka-Gumti National park and several agricultural communities. “Consequently, due to the strategic nature of the important towns and cities it cuts across, the road attracts high vehicular traffic, all year round,” Shehuri said. In his address, the paramount ruler of Ganye Chiefdom, Gangwari Ganye, Umaru Sanda, thanked government for the road project which he said was abandoned for over 20 years. “We are highly grateful to President Buhari led administration and all those behind this historical event,” Sanda said. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustafa said the road was last rehabilitated by PTF in 1996 by Buhari who was then the chairman of PTF.