The feat attained by the first private university in Ekiti State - Afe Babalola University, Ado Ekiti - as the best private university in Nigeria and the second best university in the country did not come to many as a surprise. Popularly called ABUAD, the school was established in 2009 by Aare Afe Babalola. His passion for the development of tertiary education developed tremendously at Unilag where he cooperated with other council members to take the institution to greater height, leading to its rating as the best university in the country by the National Universities Commission (NUC) and he was adjudged the best Pro Chancellor in the country. Not satisfied with the feat achieved at Unilag, Babalola decided to float his own university with the determination to provide the next generation of Nigerians with competitive higher education. Some reasons that probably make the institution first choice to both parents and prospective students are stable academic calendar, full residential accommodation for students, zero tolerance to cultism and other related vices, compulsory entrepreneurial skills for students, talent development centre, modern agric sector among others. Since the school was established, there has not been any reported case of academic disruption. No student has exceeded the duration of his/her academic programme in the school. At ABUAD, it is compulsory for every student, irrespective of preferred course to study one skill out of the 28 different skills under the school’s Entrepreneurial and Skills Acquisition programme. It is also compulsory to take a course in agriculture. The programme is meant to make every student that passes through the school equipped with at least one skill in addition to his/her course of study to making them less dependent on government for sustainability. The university has not been found wanting in its contribution to the development of the state and the country at large. In Ekiti, the institution is described as the highest employer of labour, and the bulk of the state’s Internally Generated Revenue comes from there. During one of his visits to the school, the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, described the newly commissioned ABUAD Teaching Hospital as the best in Africa. The Engineering Society of Nigeria also scored the school first in seven different engineering courses. The Public Relations Officer of ABUAD, Mr. Tunde Olofintila, attributed the achievements to “special interest in leadership” which he said had contributed in no great measure to the development of the school. Afe Babalola’s story on how he attained prominence might also have encouraged parents to fall in love with the school. The biography of Afe Baalola revealed that he was not born with the proverbial silver spoon but was a strong-spirited young boy. His formal education almost ended in primary school as his parents couldn’t afford secondary school fees. Fortunately, international programmes helped him set secondary education at the London School of Economics. And the rest, as they say, is now history.