Kwara State Governor, Dr Abdulfatah Ahmed, has congratulated Muslims on the occasion of the Eid-el-kabir festival, wishing all and sundry a peaceful and happy celebration. The Governor in a press statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Abdulwahab Oba, urged Muslims  to imbibe the lessons of total submission and obedience to the will of Almighty Allah and promote the principle of being one another's keepers. The governor who emphasised the need to devote oneself to the services of the Supreme Being and pray for the unity, peace, progress and stability of the country as we approach another period of general elections in the country, enjoined everyone to participate actively in the forth-coming elections by making sure that they obtain their PVC. "Let's guide against hate speech, thuggery and violence but imbibe lessons of the season and pray for free, fair and credible elections in 2019 and beyond", the governor said. Governor Ahmed expressed his gratitude to the people of the state for their supports and prayers over the years and renewed his commitment to bequeathing a worthy legacy for his successor. "We shall take our projects to fruition levels", the governor said. Similarly, the speaker, Kwara State House of Assembly, Rt. Hon. Ali Ahmad, has felicitated with muslims across the world for the celebration of Eid-el-Kabir, charging them to use the festivity to pray for peace and tranquility in the country ahead of the forthcoming 2019 general elections. Ahmad, in a congratulatory message to Muslims issued by his Special Assistant on Media, Shuaib Abdulkadir, said the conduct of 2019 polls would further proof to the world how the nation's nascent democracy has developed. He noted that series of events happening in the nooks and crannies of the country is a testament to the fact that the elections could be threatened if adequate measures are not put in place. The Speaker, therefore, enjoined the Nigerians, especially Muslims to use the period to embrace the virtues of love and sacrifice for the unity and development of the country. He tasked Muslims to celebrate with modesty and offer ceaseless prayers for the country to surmount various challenges being encountered in all sectors. The Speaker also congratulated the Emir of Ilorin and Chairman, Council of Traditional Rulers, Kwara State, His Royal Highness, Alhaji (Dr.) Ibrahim Sulu Gambari as well as the Islamic Scholars, praying that they witness many Eid-el-Kabir with good health and sound mind.