His famous warning to two ministers, the rhetoric during the just concluded Ekiti State governorship election, the reaction to the gale of defections, the controversy over the choice of primary method adopted, and the current dissolution of some state excos, among others have made some party members to begin to doubt his ability to achieve the much needed genuine reconciliation in the ruling party ahead of 2019 general elections. Daily Trust on Sunday examines some of his actions, utterances and activities within the last 40 days against  the agenda he set for himself before assuming the office. Oshiomhole began to create a new impression about his personality on July 11 when he directed the Minister of Labour and Employment, Dr Chris Ngige and that of State for Aviation, Senator Hadi Sirika, to inaugurate all the boards under their ministries within one week or face the wrath of the ruling party. In a letter addressed to the ministers, dated July 11, 2018, he said the failure to reconstitute the boards did not only contravene the position of the National Executive Council (NEC) and presidential directives to all ministers but also represent a great disrespect to the party. Part of the letter, which was obtained from his Chief Press Secretary, Simon Ebegbulem, reads: “This is to inform you that the attention of the National Working Committee has been drawn to your refusal to inaugurate members of the reconstituted boards under the supervision of your ministry. “This contravenes the position of the NEC, national caucus and the presidential directives to all ministers to inaugurate boards of parastatals under their ministries. We find this attitude as disrespect to the President and disservice to our great party. The party will henceforth no longer tolerate any appointee of government at all level who continue to willfully disregard lawful instructions from either the government or the party. “In the light of the forgery, you are hereby directed to inaugurate all the boards under your ministry within one week; failure of which the party will take appropriate disciplinary measures against you,” the letter said. After 12 days, Oshiomhole further threatened the Minister of Labour and Employment with suspension over the delay in the appointment of boards under his ministry. Speaking to the State House correspondents after a meeting with the President’s Chief Staff, Abba Kyari, the former NLC leader said that if President Muhammadu Buhari condones disrespect, he would not. He said the Ngige would be suspended from the party and that he would recommend for his sack from the federal cabinet. “If the minister refuses, we will suspend him from the party. You know we must return to internal discipline. For me, it is the height of mischief for any minister, you cannot purport to be honourable minister and you act dishonourably and nobody is greater than the party. “And if the President condones disrespect for his office, I will not condone disrespect for the party. And when we expel the minister, we will prevail on the president that he can’t keep in his cabinet people who have neither respect for his own decisions nor have respect for the party without which they would not have been ministers. “There is no independent candidate in our system.  Nobody, I emphasis, no minister is above the party and they have taken undue advantage of the president’s fatherly disposition,” he said. Daily Trust on Sunday learnt that President Buhari and the affected ministers were not too comfortable with the remarks from Comrade Oshiomhole. Oshiomhole is out to destroy APC – deputy speaker His approach also came to limelight last week when the Deputy Speaker of the House of Representatives, Lasun Yusuff, who was angered by the outcome of the recent Osun State governorship primary election which he lost, warned that Oshiomhole would destroy the party with his leadership style. “Those who organised that primary know they are going to destroy that party. I did not accept the outcome of the primary election. Why would I accept that kind of primary, where a direct primary was conducted in my state, one week after another form of primary was conducted in another state. “And I hope the chairman will wake up. That chairman is going to destroy that party. The chairman of that party is going to destroy it. “Let me be specific, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole is going to destroy APC. I have not spoken since that primary, but I am speaking now. Nobody can drive me out of that party. I am a member of APC. “I am going to stay right inside there, if the party is going to collapse, let it collapse on all of us. If it is going to survive, we are going to survive in it together,” Lasun said in anger. Uncoordinated reactions to defections His reaction to the defection of Ortom attracted a lot of criticisms, having earlier told him that he would not go to another political party and promised to pursue a win-win situation in Benue State. Oshiomhole had earlier said that “Governor Ortom is not going anywhere, he is a very prominent member of our party. We appreciate his leadership in Benue and we will do everything possible to help those who have issues resolved. But barely 11 days after the governor had left for the PDP, Oshiomhole said the stakeholders believed that fielding Ortom that had been alleged to have deepened poverty in a state that survived on salaries and would lead to electoral defeat, adding that the APC would get a credible Benue citizen to fly its flag in 2019. The former labour leader, who said the party was relieved with the exit of Ortom, added that the APC would use the current gale of defections to weed out people whose values were in conflict with the core values of progressive politics. Pundits say though Oshiomhole made frantic efforts to stop the eventual defection of Senate President Bukola Saraki, governors Abdulfattah Ahmed, Kwara; Ortom, Benue; and Aminu Tambuwal, Sokoto, the 15 senators, and 37 members of the House of Representatives, his interventions did not succeed because they had made up their minds to leave for the Peoples democratic Party (PDP) to pursue their ambitions. Unease over dissolution and swearing-in of state exco Within the last 40 days, the former labour leader inaugurated the Delta State chapter of the party led by Prophet Jones Erue, a loyalist of Chief Great Ogboru and Sen. Ovie Omo-Agege, and Prof. Pat Utomi, among others after a legal victory. The decision dislodged Chief Cyril Ogodo-led faction that had the backing of a former governorship candidate of the party, Olorogun O’tega Emerhor. To Oshiomhole’s credit, he had convened a reconciliation meeting that had Delta State key stakeholders, including the leaders of the two factions in attendance. On July 31, the APC national chairman also swore in the newly-elected Imo State APC Chairman, Mr. Daniel Madueke Nwafor, a decision that handed over the party structure to Governor Rochas Okorocha who had hitherto lost at the congresses conducted by Odigie-Oyegun-led NWC. The decision had angered Dr Hilary Eke-led exco that has the support of Imo Stakeholders that opposed Okorocha’s leadership. Last week, Oshiomhole-led NWC sacked Etim John-led party executive in Cross River State and ordered for the conduct of fresh state congress in Cross River, an action that has created disquiet in the losing camp. What Oshiomhole should do A chieftain of the APC and the Director -General of the Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr Osita Okechukwu as well as a political analyst, Elder Emmanuel Okoro, believed that the former labour leader came at a ‘difficult’ period. “I think the position he met on the ground requires some combat and reconciliation as well. So, he has to bring his own character to his administration. There is no way he can avoid that provided he works within the law. “He is coming on the eve of a major general election. He has to draw up his arms. The only thing I will advise is that whatever he does, it should be within the law because we are running a constitutional democracy. Otherwise, you cannot change a man that is over 50. You can’t change him. He is a combatant person by nature. “Where I will have problem with him for his combat nature is if he is acting outside the law because there is a party constitution and the Nigerian constitution,” Okechukwu said. Elder Okoro, in his reaction to Oshiomhole’s leadership style, said the former governor of Edo State met the party under a very difficult situation that required total inclusion of party chieftains. The political analyst, who said the huge problems that he faced had not made his performance to be excellent, stated that Oshiomhole needed a high-profile team to help him puncture the bottled-up grievances of the party chieftains across the country. “There is no reason why few months to new election, those who worked for you, you have not been able to appreciate their sufferings. And you are pretending that you will get their total support. They are not children.” He warned that Oshiomhole’s combative attitude might drive people away from the party and advised him to visit flash point states like Imo, Oyo, Benue, and Adamawa with boiling grievances to avoid the harm that those he called “enemies within” could cause. “If you talk to NWC members, they see Oshiomhole as very dictatorial. And they won’t tell him this to his face.  If you take opinion poll privately, they are looking for a reconciler who will be more patient, more tolerant and ready to meet with a cross-section of Nigerians to look at the problems,” he also said.