A youth group in Yorubaland under the aegis of Progressive Yoruba Youth Congress on Monday called on patriotic Nigerians to rise against attempt by some individuals and groups in the country who are bent on frustrating the gains recorded by the Nigerian military in the war against insurgency. The group said some detractors appear to be overwhelmed by the successes recorded by the military in routing the insurgents. National President of the group, Comrade Kola Salawu, who addressed a press conference in Lagos raised the alarm over the activities of those allegedly undermining the Nigerian military particularly the army, without thoughts for how their activities impact the overall stability of Nigeria as a country and the consequences of same for the safety and security of citizens. He said their activities are being "packaged to appear as patriotic activism so that members of the public would be deceived into thinking that they are in the best interest of the society." He explained that if truly their activities were driven by patriotism, they should be praising the Nigerian Army for her efforts in dealing with the existential threats that could have destroyed the country. He noted that the intent of this strategy is apparently to get people to support the perpetrators of these evil acts in rubbishing the Army and destroying their own country indirectly. According to Salawu, the congress had identified some 'sham' Civil Society Organizations and non-governmental organizations (NGOs) that have been deployed for this purpose. "The Progressive Yoruba Youth Congress therefore, in the strongest terms, condemns those attempting to ridicule the military for selfish gains. “We warn that those who think they have the monopoly of mischief to for once respect the sanctity of life and not drag our army into the mud because of whatever it is they stand to gain. We warned them to leave the Nigerian Army and its leadership out of their mischief or else Nigerians will take up serious actions against them and their sponsors", he said. He added, "In some instances, the operators of these groups leverage on their personal notoriety to achieve the same results. "Their activities we have so far observed include: First, they query the defeat of Boko Haram and tried to use fake news to reinvent a new brand of terrorism. They have in some instances attributed accidents and robbery incidents to Boko Haram just so that they can claim that the terror group is still larger than life. "These people have been manipulating reports of incidents involving the army in manners that could cause disaffection for troops on national assignments. This includes attributing attacks carried out by Boko Haram terrorists to the Nigerian military so that they can use such to whip up sentiments against the army. "They also create the impression that soldiers are always slow to respond to distress calls whenever terrorists attempt to attack vulnerable communities. Reports in this regard are manipulated to create the impression that the military is indifferent to the plight of communities where terrorists attempt to stage raids." The President also accused the detractors of distorting facts and figures of attacks; some of which he noted are not existent. He said, "In the desperation to prove these non-existing attacks by Boko Haram they use fake pictures, often from several years ago or from other countries, to paint every effort by the Buhari’s administration black. "They assign disproportionately higher casualty figures to the army while downplaying the losses suffered by terrorists. This can only be aimed at demoralizing soldiers, boost the morale of terrorists and sow fear in the hearts of citizens. "The most worrisome dimension that has been introduced in recent weeks is that these groups and dubious individuals are now encouraging military personnel to breach the confidentiality required in their line of duty by asking that they leak classified documents that include operational plans and strategies. "They romanticize this criminal demand by making it seem that the personnel are being recruited to be patriotic whistle-blowers when in reality they are being recruited to divulge sensitive information and intelligence about troops movement which these perpetrators then pass on to terrorists. "After deploying all these strategies and still failing to achieve their objectives, they have now created a new one of trying to make the world believe that funds meant for military are being misapplied. These are the same characters that had earlier argued that the military does not need money. Which leaves us to wonder which money they are now talking about after trying to block funds for the procurement of arms and ammunition. "