The police in Lagos State are on the hunt for a disc jockey, Seun Hammed Olayinka, alias DJ Shy, for allegedly organising a gang of robbers to attack his neighbour. DJ Shy, according to the police, is said to be the leader of a three-man armed robbery gang and fled from his house at Ebute Ikorodu, when detectives arrived, but other members of his gang were arrested. Those arrested are Solomon Jacob, 29; Ifeanyi Chifalue, 32; and Akinola Michael, 24. Exhibits allegedly recovered from them included a pistol, three live ammunitions and an Iphone 8. Jacob yesterday confessed before newsmen that his group only operated in their neighbourhood in Ikorodu where the gang members resided. The suspect, who said at the Command Headquarters, Ikeja, that a friend he identified as Yinka lured him into crime, added the gang always went out in the wee hours of the day to steal phones, which they sold to dealers at the Computer Village, Ikeja. Jacob said, “The first day, Yinka told me he needed me to collect a phone from his neighbour’s apartment. I was not told that we were going to steal phones, otherwise I wouldn’t have gone out with them. Probably, he used a charm on me when he brought out his gun from his room. “He told me he was going to keep watch on his neighbour’s apartment. He came back later to say they were in. He gave me the gun and told me to enter the house to take their phones. I had gone in to take the phones when an alarm was raised and we were all apprehended. Warning residents to always keep a tab on their neighbours, the Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, said, “I have always asked the question: Do you know your neighbour well? If Omotoyosi Bello knew that her neighbour and co-tenant at No 32, Ajose Street, Ebute Ikorodu, called Seun Hammed Olayinka, alias DJ Shy, is a member of an armed robbery gang, perhaps she might have given him up to the police. “Unfortunately for her, it was the said Seun, a disc jockey, who organized a three-man armed robbery gang to attack and rob her of her Iphone valued at N150,000 on August 9, 2018, at about 8:30pm.”