A popular cliché postulates that he who goes to equity must go with clean hands. Had it been the recent rhetoric of Alhaji Buba Galadima, the self-acclaimed chairman of the Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC), was born out of national interest, one would have no option than to give him and his co-travellers a thunderous applause. However, Buba is engaged in his rhetoric and character assassination of his former ally now President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari, because they fell out. I have both moral and ethical rights to comment on the disposition of Galadima, as we have been in politics together since the days of All Nigeria Peoples Party (APP) through to Congress for Progressive Change and now All Progressives Congress (APC). Galadima is bitter with President Buhari for obvious reasons. It amazed me when I heard him issue an empty threat to say some things about Buhari. I would like to emphatically state that he has nothing negative to say about President Buhari. I challenge him to come out and say whatever he thinks he has to say against the President and I have uncountable things to say about him. During our days in CPC, where Buba was the National Secretary, I was the Niger state chairman of the party and I was also the chairman of all state party chairmen of CPC then. So, I know a lot about him. At that time, they blocked people from going close to Buhari, including Chief Ahmed Bola Tinubu. Buba had wished to maintain his ties with Buhari, but the President has realised the type of character he is, hence his decision to dump him. The decision of Buba to be falling head over heels in defence of the people he described as enemies of Nigeria, as well as wine and dine with them, is enough evidence to show that this man is out to achieve a sinister motive. Unfortunately for him however, he is just boxing the air and shooting the sky as far as the Nigerian masses, who are the strong and dependable political base of Buhari, are concerned. The dilemma of Buba may last forever, because hundreds of us who know him and his past are scattered across Nigeria and we would continue to expose him. Abdulqadir Shehu Nahuntuwa wrote this from Kaduna