Governor el-Rufai has reason to worry as people who helped him win in 2015 now want  his seat. In the buildup to the 2015 general elections, the then candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Malam Nasir el-Rufai had little to worry about. The party had so many things going for it in Kaduna State. The peculiar way it was formed, the grievances against the then ruling Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and the personality of the then presidential candidate of the APC, Muhammadu Buhari, all helped to brighten its chances. But in the current buildup to the 2019 general elections, a lot has changed to make the governor worry. Most of the people who were with him in the APC when he won the election in 2015 and who had given him support and rattled other opponents have gone, leaving him with a few close aides who are still standing by him. The governor has been able to snatch the machinery of the party in the state but at a great cost. And the PDP is benefiting immensely from the crisis that rocked the APC. To his advantage, the governor has been able to scare away likely aspirants for the ticket of  the party, leaving only him as the sole aspirant for the party’s governorship ticket for 2019. The position of the national body of the party, which seems to favour a return ticket for most of its governors, may have also contributed to this as no other person has indicated interest in the ticket of the party. But the PDP has eight aspirants: Suleiman Othman Hunkuyi, Muhammad Sani Sidi, Muhammad Sani Bello, Shuaib Idris Miqati, Isa Hashiru Kudan, Mukhtar Ramalan Yero, Jafaru Sani and Jonathan Kish Adamu. The Socialist Democratic Party (SDP), on the other hand, has two aspirants, Haruna Sa’id and Weynet Sidi. The Peoples Redemption Party (PRP), on its part, also has one aspirant so far, Pastor Isaac Makama Ango. While it is believed that the large number of aspirants would help in defeating Governor El-Rufai, especially looking at the many issues he has with various persons and groups in the state, the governor and his supporters, on the other hand, are confident that he would return to power. They regard most of the aspirants in the other parties as mere attention seekers, with little or no weight in politics. They also believe that most of the aspirants rode on the popularity of President Muhammadu Buhari to get to where they are, and without him they cannot go far. The governor is also counting on a number of projects he started in the state to make him accepted to the people. For instance, he has opened up roads in parts of the town, done major work on the Zaria water project, rehabilitated schools and employed thousands of teachers. He, however, blamed the non-completion of projects on senators from the state, who he alleged frustrated his efforts to obtain a $350million loan from the World Bank He is also relying on the victory of the APC in 15 out of the 23 local government areas of the state, saying it is a proof of the popularity of the party in the state. Another factor going for the governor is his current financial weight.  It is contestable if any other aspirant would be able to compete with him in this regard. He is said to have mobilised resources, using his contacts across the country. But the perception in the southern senatorial zone of the state that he does not like them may work against him. This reflected in the last local government election in the state, where the APC won only in 2 of the local government areas in the zone, losing four to the PDP, while two were declared inconclusive. It is widely believed that the election was put off in those areas because of the fear that the ruling party was losing. The governor has also hurt many sections of the society. For instance, he has taken actions that angered the Shiites, as well as sacked over 20,000 teachers and other workers in the state. The frontline contenders Hunkuyi Senator Othman Hunkuyi was el-Rufai’s staunch supporter in 2015. He was said to have even told off many people who were not in support of the APC candidate, posing as a shield to the governor. The relationship between them was so chummy that he was believed to have been one of the few el-Rufai took into confidence in all matters during the campaigns. They parted ways when it was becoming increasingly clear that the governor preferred to govern on his own. The last straw was hit during the election of delegates for APC’s non- elective congresses when the governor ensured that only those in his camp were elected. This action was interpreted by stakeholders like Hunkuyi as a ploy to deny them their right in the party. The governor increased the level of hostility when an agency of the state government demolished a house belonging to the senator and issued a notice that it would take a similar drastic action on his other property. Hunkuyi was also prevented from the congress of the party. He defected to the PDP with other senators, saying that his major project is to unseat Governor el-Rufai in 2019. Isa Ashiru He was the chairman of the Appropriation Committee of the Kaduna State House of Assembly, from where he was elected to the House of Representatives, where he also became the vice chairman of the Appropriation Committee. He ran for the ticket of the APC with El-Rufai in 2014 and came second in the primary election. Due to the challenge he posed to El-Rufai’s ambition, he did not look the way of the administration for anything. When it became clear that even those who worked for the governor were complaining, he decided to widen the distance between them. He later left the APC for the PDP and declared his intention to run. He has since gone round the state to consult with stakeholders in all the local government areas. Yero Ramalan Yero was governor during the 2015 elections, but he was defeated due to many factors. He is hoping to return to the Government House due to the perception that the current administration has made many enemies for itself. He sees his recent travail in the hands of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) as the handiwork of the state government; hence he is determined to unseat the governor. Miqati In 2007, Shuaib Idris Miqati indicated interest in becoming the governor of Kaduna State. The former manager, Human Resources of the Dangote Group, said he decided to run for the position because he has what it takes to make a change in the state. He has since developed a blueprint in that regard and stepped up consultations. Miqati did not leave the fold of the PDP and is one of those who believe that the party has what it takes to come back to power. He has also given the indication that he will work with whoever emerges as the candidate of the PDP. Sani Sidi The former director-general of the National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA) is said to have contributed to the victory of the APC in 2015 although he remained in the PDP and was a confidant to the then Vice President Namadi Sambo. He was relieved of his appointment when the APC took over government. He has declared interest in the seat, saying he is willing to cooperate with anybody that wins the ticket of the party. Sani Bello The former Director of Finance of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS) holds the traditional title of Mainan Zazzau. It is said that he has been the one financing the PDP since it lost power in 2015, enabling the secretariat to pay salaries of staff as well as oil its other structures. But as a result of the influx of defectors to the party in Kaduna State, his chances of clinching the ticket seem threatened. But many people believe he would get a good bargain due to the sacrifice he has made for the party. Jonathan Kish Adamu Adamu was a member of the Kaduna State House Assembly and later became the commissioner for justice. He is from the southern senatorial zone of the state and is said to be interested in the governorship seat. Haruna Sa’id Sa’id made impact on the political climate of Kaduna State when he ran as the governorship candidate of the defunct Congress for Progressive Change (CPC) in 2011. Since then, he is seen as a formidable force in the politics of the state. He ran again for the APC ticket in 2014 but lost to El-Rufai. He couldn’t find accommodation in the APC; hence he has left the party and is aspiring for the ticket of the SDP. Ango Isaac Makama Ango, a pastor of the Living Faith Church, is currently the sole aspirant for the ticket of the PRP. He defected from the PDP to join the governorship race.