The Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme (PAP),Brig-Gen. Paul Boroh, says the establishment and operations of modular refineries in the Niger Delta will end youth restiveness in the region. Boroh, who is also the Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta Affairs, said this in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) in Abuja on Tuesday. He said that such refineries when established, would engage many youths in the region, expressing joy that a shipment of one set of modular refinery had arrived the country. The coordinator said the refineries would create job opportunities for about 2000 unemployed youths in the region and would make petroleum products available at affordable rates. “Modular refinery will provide jobs for the youths of the region and every Nigerian will enjoy the products at reasonable prices,” he said. He said establishment of the refineries would also end illegal oil actives as youth of the region would be engaged in meaningful ventures. “The illegal refining activities taking place within the creeks and environment will be discouraged. “The activities have led to pipeline vandalism, river and land pollution, environmental degradation, oil theft and loss of revenue to the Federal Government. “The elimination of illegal oil bunkering and related acts of economic sabotage in the region remain one of the major tasks for the federal government. “Government has been battling the increasing spate of illegal refineries which has become a matter of serious concern. “But because of the proactive measures being taken, the incidents have reduced,” Boroh said. The presidential aide said however that the establishment of the refineries posed some challenges but added that they were not insurmountable. “Once the appropriate conditions and enabling environment are in place, it is firmly believed that there will be significant investments in the oil and gas industry. “We must understand that investments cannot operate in a vacuum. There is a need to ensure that the appropriate conditions are in place to ensure the viability of these projects. Boroh called on stakeholders in the oil and gas sector to invest in modular refineries as a solution to the persistent fuel scarcity in the country.