King Kila was the paramount ruler of Kila Kingdom. He was feared, revered and loved. His wealth was known beyond the borders of his kingdom. His farmlands were vast, his slaves many. Women loved and flocked around him. Kila married many wives and didn’t fail to fill his palace with children. Songs were composed to celebrate Kila’s prowess and proclivity. Kila the fertile king He’s fertile in the field and fertile in his bed Kila’s kind fruits are what I desire Plenty of fruits in the field Plenty of children in the royal compound Oh gods of our land, bless me like Kila the king King Kila was generous not only to his family but to his subjects. But there was a snag; the king’s offsprings were spoilt and lazy. They slept all day and played all night. They grew fat and belched in the faces of men old-enough to be their grand-fathers. All the hardwork was left to slaves on the farms and in the palace. The kingdom hunters brought their best games to royal household at the end of the day. The palmwine tappers did the same. Kila’s princes always had something to celebrate. In any case, what’s there to be sad about? Kila’s children had everything, a generous father, a prosperous kingdom waiting to be inherited, women who lived to pleasure them, unlimited resources. And they didn’t have to break sweat to get any of these. So they ate roasted bushmeat and washed it down with sweet frothy palm wine. The kingdom grew. King Kila also grew old, and older and then one day, he joined his ancestors. The gods decided he had done enough for the kingdom. One of the sons of Kila had to ascend his father’s throne. The cacophonous argument that followed was close to a civil war. The spoilt princes knew nothing about anything. They all wanted to be King. Were they not all rich? Were they all not tall and well-built with royal blood flowing in their veins? They fought in the palace and outside of it, deploying every unroyal method. King Kila’s children fought over farmlands they inherited. They fought over the slaves. And then over their late father’s young beautiful widows. They did nothing to build on the wealth they inherited. They did nothing to preserve the peace. They just fought  and fought and eventually destroyed it all. Now they look back and ask, ‘How did we get here?’ ‘Why is our past so much better than our present?’ Like Kila’s children, so are we in Nigeria. We were born into wealth. We did not have to work for it. Our oil was as accidental find. Or how much did we spend as a nation on exploration before the accidental gush of God’s goodness? And when the gush became an endless petro-stream of uncountable dollars, what did we do? Didn’t we just eat endless roasted bushmeat, drank frothy palm wine and generally partied until we dropped from exhaustion? Like Kila’s children, Nigeria gave no thought to tomorrow and refused to build on what it inherited. Or did we plan for today? No, we didn’t. We were sure tomorrow would not come. We stuffed our faces with every indulgence and called Nigeria an oil-producing nation. Ah, ah, I dey laff o. Do we do more than harvest what God planted centuries ago? We are not even faithful in the harvesting! We have married many wives and we make babies faster than rats and pigs. We ship off our harvest and buy it back more expensive that we sold it. Like Kila’s unthinking children. All we do is argue instead of listening to one another and discussing how to make the best of our bad situation. We continue to argue over everything; religion, ethnicity, tenure, tenure elongation, sequencing…… We end up scratching an itch instead of paying attention to a fast-spreading leprosy. Did we not once have functional public-water system? I remember ‘water works’, public taps and water rate. How much of that is left in Nigeria? We had public schools and public hospitals. Yes, all our leaders today were born in public hospitals and attended public schools. But here we are, stranded and shamed publicly. Did you ask how? All the grand-children of these leaders are being born in US, UK and Canada. That’s right. Most of tomorrow’s leaders are already Canadians, Americans and British. We’d have to re-import them like our crude. Because we are King Kila’s children who chewed and swallowed their today and washed it down with frothy palmwine of thoughtlessness. But before I get any angrier, please join me in wishing Media Trust Group happy 20th birthday. At least this is one business concern that didn’t eat both yesterday and today all up in mindless orgy. That’s why Funke Egbemode got to write here.  Egbemode is President, Nigerian Guild of Editors. She wrote this piece to commemorate  Daily Trust at 20