Dangote Business School (DBS) of Bayero University Kano has been commissioned to serve as an incubation centre for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial development in the country. The building complex, comprising lecture theatres, Libraries, offices and cafeterias among others was unveiled by the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II.  The project, Daily Trust gathered was in fulfillment to a promise the multi-national business tycoon made at a convocation ceremony of the institution some years ago during the administration of Professor Attahiru Jega as the Vice Chancellor of BUK.  Speaking yesterday at commissioning of the project, Alhaji Aliko Dangote expressed satisfaction with the way the project was executed and urged staff and students of the institution to reciprocate the gesture by contributing to the economic integration of the country through quality training and research on best ways to do business in Africa. He identified quality education as panacea for vibrant economic development, emphasizing the need for the school to be a reference point in grooming world class entrepreneurs. ‘’My interest for supporting higher education in Nigeria stems from the belief that we can and we should  provide the same quality of education here in Nigeria like anywhere else in the world. Good quality education is fundamental in breeding a vibrant economy and society. ‘’My goal for this business school is for it to become a reference point when it comes to learning how to do business successfully in Nigeria and in Africa. This means that this business school should carry out studies and research that are specific to our needs and ways of doing business which would allow more information to be shared globally on how Africans can do business. ‘’I believe that this business school can and should foster relationship with other business schools across Africa and the globe and I am sure they already have affiliation with other three universities and we are working to make sure that they also have with the Harvert business school. ‘’This business school will be training and preparing future African leaders in business, who will understand how to develop, and also train others to become visionary businessmen. I also see this business school playing a role in accelerating the economic integration of our continent’’ Dangote said. The Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to complete the ‘centre of excellence project’ it has started in the BUK, saying the project if completed would complement DBS to achieving its set objectives. The royal father commended Dangote for his contributions to the development of the economy in various facets and appealed to the government to partner with the private sector to create enabling environment for business and entrepreneurship development. The Vice Chancellor BUK, Professor Muhammad Bello Yahuza commended Dangote for his numerous interventions in the institution, assuring that “with the new ultramodern Dangote Business school and its facilities, the university is now more poised to serve the society even better through training research and service provision.” Dangote Business School was established in 2015, conducting programmes at the initial location inside the new campus. The school currently offers post graduate programmes, however, its doctoral degree program in Business Administration will commence soon, and thus will be the only school in Nigeria to offer doctoral degree program in Business Administration. Daily trust learnt the school was constructed at the cost of N1.2 billion naira.