The Accident Investigation Bureau (AIB) on Tuesday released the preliminary reports for the on-going investigation into the serious incidents involving Delta Airline plane, Dana Airline and another private jet operated by Nest Oil. The three incidents happened on January 25, February 13 and February 20 this year. Delta Airbus A330-223 aircraft with registration N858NW had made an emergency landing after take-off from Murtala Muhammed International Airport (MMIA). Also, the Dana Air MD – 83 aircraft marked 5N-SRI overran the runway at the Port Harcourt International Airport while a Gulfstream G200 aircraft belonging to Nest Oil with registration number 5N-BTF occurred at Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja. In the preliminary report signed by the spokesman of the bureau, Mr. Tunji Oketunbi, the AIB said the Number One engine fire warning came on about a minute after take-off, while the crew declared emergency. The report stated that the aircraft landed at about 2259hrs and stopped on runway 18R, where the Airport Rescue and Fire Fighting Service first reported observing smoke, and fire on the Number One engine. It said investigative actions may include engine examination, material testing for the fuel manifolds, engine oil and hydraulic lines, inspection of fuel manifolds for crack and inspection of fuel nozzle braze joints for leaks. On the Dana Air incident, he said the flight which took off from Abuja had “an uneventful” flight to Port Harcourt and was cleared to land by the Air Traffic Control. “The crew reported that the runway had experienced recent rain before arrival and after touch down looked and felt contaminated with flood of water that did not drain well”, it said. Other findings include the fact that after the aircraft came to a complete stop, emergency evacuation was carried out using only the left forward main door and the escape slide on this door did not deploy just as the Public Address System did not work. On the Nest Oil aircraft incident which lost its tires, the bureau said the aircraft lost directional control during the landing roll; the aircraft veered off and came to rest on the right shoulder of the runway. Oketunbi said investigations continue to release final reports of the incidents.