Worried by the financial burden on bereaved families, the Mwagavwul  community in Mangu Local Government of Plateau has abolished the feeding  of sympathisers visiting bereaved homes. “Experience has shown that bereaved families go through a lot in the  efforts to feed and please the multitude thronging in to sympathise with  them over the loss of loved ones. “As a community, we have banned such feeding in the bye-laws endorsed  by our development association,” Mr Joshua Mape, National President,  Mwagavwul Development Association, told the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN)  on Wednesday in Jos. He said that it was not fair to worsen the economic situation of  mourning families, adding that the community arrived at the decision  after “very wide consultation”. Mape said that the practice of feeding mourners was alien to the community. “Feeding sympathisers is not part of Mwagavwul culture. It is not fair or right,” he said He regretted that some bereaved families had often borrowed to feed  sympathisers, saying that the trend was “a huge and unnecessary burden”. Mape, however, suggested that sympathisers could bring food to bereaved homes to feed those that had lost their loved ones. “In Mwagavwul land, the sympathisers are expected to take food to the  bereaved families because they are already hit by the trauma of losing a  loved one and cannot cook,” he said. He said that the association set up a committee which looked into  issues affecting Mwaghavul culture before it enacted the bye laws to  guide the lives of the people and save their culture from being  corrupted. “ The bye laws abolished celebrating the death of people less than 65  years. It also pegged the bride price to be paid on Mwagavwul daughters  at N50,000, irrespective of location and education”. The association leader commended Mwagavwul rural communities for  celebrating annual festivals, saying that the platform had always  promoted the unique culture and heritage of the people. Mape urged the Plateau government to complete work on the 150  kilometres Panyam- Wamba road abandoned more than a decade ago, saying  that it would ease the movement of farm produce from rural communities  to urban centres(NAN)