China  warned the U. S. on Thursday not to open Pandora’s Box and spark a  flurry of protectionist practices across the globe, even as Beijing  pointed to U.S. goods that it could target in a deepening Sino-U.S.  trade dispute. President Donald Trump’s move on March 23, slapped up to 60 billion  dollars in tariffs on some Chinese imports has since provoked a warning  from Beijing that it could retaliate with duties of up to three billion  dollars of U.S. imports. China’s biggest U.S. imports are aircraft and related equipment,  soybeans and autos, with the total bill about 40 billion dollars in  2017. “The malicious practices of the U. S. are like opening Pandora’s Box,  and there is a danger of triggering a chain reaction that will spread  the virus of trade protectionism across the globe,” a commerce ministry  spokesman said. The official line from China continues to be stern even as Beijing says it is all for dialogue and negotiations. The feedback from U.S. and Chinese officials on the nature and extent of trade talks remains mixed, media reports show. Chinese customs data shows the U.S. accounted for just 2.6 billion  dollars, or one per cent, of China’s total semiconductor imports last  year by value, with suppliers in South Korea, Taiwan and Japan  commanding a bigger share. But a source in the U.S. semiconductor industry said U.S. companies  have slightly more than 50 per cent of China’s market for chips, though  export data doesn’t reflect that because much of the product is sent  off-shore for low value added processing. The source said the U.S. semiconductor industry had not asked the  Trump administration to urge China to buy more U.S. chips and had been  told by senior U.S. officials that the U.S. government had not made such  a request to Beijing. “It’s more about (Chinese) subsidies, IP protection, and cyber  rules,” the source said, referring to concerns over Chinese retaliation. China has long said it would like to import more U.S. high-tech  goods, including high-end chips, but has been stymied by U.S. export  controls set on national security grounds. China’s commerce ministry said on Thursday the U.S. approach to trade  could trigger a domino effect and U.S. trade protectionism will only  hurt U.S. consumers. While China hopes the U.S. will resolve trade conflicts with China  through dialogue, it will take all possible steps to protect its  interests, ministry spokesman Gao Feng told a regular briefing in  Beijing. “Negotiations must be equal, and China will not accept any consultation under unilateral coercion,” Gao said. The tariff list is expected in the next several days. The China Daily on Thursday quoted Premier Li Keqiang as telling a  U.S. Congressional delegation on Monday that China was open to dialogue  but “fully prepared with countermeasures”. It warned that if the conflict continued to escalate “China could  consider taking reciprocal measures against U.S. imports of agricultural  products besides soybeans, as well as aircraft, automobiles and  semiconductors.” “And should the Trump administration further obstruct Chinese  investments in the U.S., even tougher measures such as restrictions on  imports of U.S. services and similar investment reviews would likely be  on the table,” it said. China is still considering import curbs on U.S.  soybeans, U.S. Soybean Export Council Asia director Paul Burke said on  Thursday, following a meeting with the Ministry of Agriculture.   (Reuters/NAN)