Every year, 33,000 pregnant women die from preventable causes-the equivalent of a passenger plane crashing every day. And 940,000 children under age five die-that’s around 2,500 of them daily-from preventable causes like pneumonia, diarrhoea, malaria. These are figures the National Primary Health Care Development Agency, which implements the lowest level of care in Nigeria, has been battling the numbers since the agency was formed. “When you look at the statistics, it is very clear that we are not doing well when it comes to providing primary health care services, providing emergency management of some of these conditions,” says Faisal Shuaib, executive director of the agency in the last one year. “A major factor that leads to these deaths is delay in the community, lack of health facilities close to people, or because they cannot afford it.” Enter CHIPS-Community Health Influencers and Promoters Service-the intervention President Muhammadu Buhari launched on at a primary health centre on a state visit to Nasarawa early February. It is the second time he has launched a health intervention at a primary health centre; the first was a bold move to revitalise primary health care, including renovating 10,000 centres, starting with one in Kuchingoro, an inner-city slum in Abuja. CHIPS isn’t new; it consolidates “fragmented and poorly coordinated” healthworkers. Village healthworkers, volunteer community mobilisers, traditional birth attendants are all cadres sponsored by different development partners. In all, they could number up to 25,000 but still far short of the scale of health workforce Nigeria needs. Under CHIPS, they come together as “agents”. The minimum is elementary education, followed by three months training upon selection but CHIPS agent will undergo the same programme from Issele-Uku to Potiskum. Buhari launched the pilot, and then directed the federal health ministry to roll it out nationwide. In the next two years, that could mean up to 200,000 agents working in their communities to bring health care to the doorsteps of fellow residents. Agents embody “where there is no doctor”. They are responsible for basic interventions in the community. CHIPS work out of an assigned kit, containing anything from supplies to treat injuries and rapid diagnosis kits for malaria testing to over-the-counter medicines to treat common ailments, all free. CHIPS have a responsibility to send their “patients” to the nearest health facility, never to usurp the role of a health facility worker. “Most of their role will be to influence decision making processes. If somebody is sick, instead of waiting till complications arise, they would quickly take the decision to go to the health facility,” says Shuaib. Community health extension workers-commonly called CHEWs and junior CHEWs-will be waiting there. “Because of the paucity of human resource to work in the facilities, you find a situation where CHEWs and [junior]CHEWs will spend most of their time in the health facility, and that part of their work that requires them to come to the community and do community extension has been relegated to the background, and that is the gap the CHIPS agents are filling,” says Shuaib. For CHIPS, federal government handles training and policy direction. States handle stipend-and that could be anything from raw cash to the recognition that it is an achievement to be selected an agent. And local government will supervise CHIPS in their wards. Federal government has allocated N1.4 billion, and proponents of the intervention are optimistic lawmakers have been so wowed that allocation in 2019 budget would increase at most or remain steady at least. Present governors wanting to leave some sort of legacy are already whispering about CHIPS. NPHCDA is in talks with Jigawa, after Kebbi, Sokoto, Bauchi and Bayelsa. “But it has to be contextualised in a way that they can sustain on their own based on resources available to the state,” Shuaib explains. “People are excited about the huge impact this will make at the community level.” “Years down the line, we are going to look back and say we did the right thing when it came to keeping our promise to provide primary health care to each and every Nigerian.”