The Nigeria Prison Service has paid 183 death claims to the tune of N126.5 million in the last one year. The Comptroller General, Prison, Alhaji Ja'afaru Ahmed disclosed this at the opening ceremony of a two-day workshop organized by the Prison Welfare Insurance Scheme in Sokoto. According to him, the sum of N100.8 million had been released for the payment of another batch of claims. Ahmed added that the Service had settled medical claims of officers who sustained injuries in the line of duty to the tune of N19.1 million while 568 retirees received N170.3 million as their terminal benefits in the period under review. The Comptroller General also revealed that the scheme had recovered debt amounting to N5.2 million for the Prison Cooperative. "It is our firm belief that for us to achieve our ultimate goal of repositioning the service to meet global standards, the men and women who will drive the process must be adequately taken care of, to achieve optimal results,” he stated. He added:" Therefore, we will not rest on our oars to ensure that Prison Welfare Insurance Scheme and every other welfare package is given maximum attention to provide the needed motivation for personnel.” Ahmed expressed appreciation to the President Buhari's administration for its sustained support to the Nigerian Prison Service. "Now our prisoners are getting speedy trials due to the adequate logistic and medication. And prisons across the country are being renovated and upgraded while our men and women are being motivated,” he said. He assured that they would continue to pursue building and renovation of barracks and offices, robust healthcare, distribution of uniforms and accoutrements as well as promotion and upgrading with honesty. Earlier, the secretary of the scheme and Assistant Comptroller of Prison, Muhammad Salisu said the workshop was organized to review their performance and address any shortcoming. Salisu remarked that payment of premium had never been delayed under Ja'afaru Ahmed led administration whom he described as accountable and transparent.