In Sokoto, a growing number of women hold sway in many sectors, lessening the gender gap for top office holders in the state. It is indeed an era for women captains with a female minister, commissioners, permanent secretary, directors-general, special advisers, senior special assistant and board members. Only weeks ago, Sokoto got its first female Police Public Relations Officer, Cordelia Nwawe. Many note that the array of females in different fields of endeavour is an encouragement   to young ones, that women can rise to enviable heights if given the opportunity. Aisha Abubakar, the first female minster from Sokoto, is of State, Trade, Industry & Investment. She has over 20 years of experience in banking and investment, rural enterprises development, microcredit administration, business support, and more. Over the years, Sokoto has maintained at least one female commissioner, that of Women Affairs. However, today there are two, Kulu Abdullahi  Sifawa (Women Affairs) and Professor Aisha  Madawaki Isah (Basic and Secondary Education). Barrister Aisha Mohammed Dan Tsoho is Permanent Secretary, Women Affairs There are six female directors-general, including Hajiya Ashatu Hassan Turai (Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency), Hauwau Abubakar Mohammed (Tourism Development Agency), Zainab Abu Sani (Sustainable Development), Zubaida Aliyu Haidar (Public Private Partnership), Hajiya Halima Zurmi (Female Education) and Amina Jekada (Parks and Recreation). Special advisers are Hajiya Imamatu Yusuf (Female Education), Dr. Hafsa Galadima (Human Rights, NGOs and Donor Agencies), and Hajiya  Binta Gwadabawa(Adult Education), while Hajiya Aisha Maina is on New Media. Special Adviser to Governor Aminu Tambuwal on Media and Public Affairs, Imam Imam said the governor sees women as equal partners in the project of developing Sokoto. “If you give equal opportunities to all members of the society, you’re likely to get the best services delivered,” he said, pointing out that Sokoto has a history of sterling women. For Dr. Amamatu Yusuf, Special Adviser on Female Education: “The Sokoto State government is very much pro-women.” She said the agency for female education, recently created to take care of the education of females in the state aims to increase enrolment, retention, graduation and transition of all girls in the state to higher institutions of learning. “It is not surprising, history  has shown us that the daughter of Usman Dan Fodiyo, Nana Asmau, who was pioneer in education in  Sokoto, had so many roles which included being a princess, a scholar, a teacher, poet, educator, wife, mother, social reformer and others, so it is really not surprising that women are doing great in Sokoto State.” Though at present there are no women in elective positions, she said it was  because they were not encouraged in the past. “But in this government, if a woman  want to vie  for any position, she  doesn’t  have to pay for forms, as a way of encouragement to go for elective  positions. Very soon, a lot of women will take a stab at elective positions in the state,” she stated. Ammatu, who holds a PhD in Educational Psychology said: “I want to see that every girl is given an opportunity to go to school, irrespective of her background, religion and other factors.” Also, DG Tourism Development Agency, Hajiya Hauwa’u Abubakar Muhammad acknowledged: “Women are now getting more involved in running the affairs of government in the state, unlike in the past. We want to be good role models for our young girls, so they see and emulate us, and the sky would be their limit.”