It was wailing and lamentation on Friday at the popular Mgbemene Market in Enugu North Local Government Area of Enugu State as a young housewife cried uncontrollably over the disappearance of her  essential commodities valued N67,000  alongside the wheelbarrow pusher entrusted with the items. An eyewitness who identified herself as Mummy Osita told Daily Trust that trouble started at about 5.25pm for the housewife when she hired the service of the wheelbarrow pusher to convey the items from the market to where she had parked her car. Our correspondent was informed that as the lady was walking along while the wheelbarrow pusher meandered his way through the huge crowd in the market, she suddenly ran into an acquaintance with who she was exchanging pleasantries. But before the lady said to be in her early 30s could finish salutation with the acquaintance, the young man with wheelbarrow had vanished without trace. “As she hugged her friend several times and they started chatting and exchanging greetings, the wheelbarrow pusher disappeared. And by the time the lady looked round, she could not catch a glimpse of the man again. “She threw herself up and down and lamented ‘Chim egbuam, Chim egbuam. O bu otua kam si jee’ (meaning, My God has killed me. My God has killed me. Is this how my journey ended?).” It was gathered that incident attracted a huge crowd of sympathizers, some of whom formed a search party that went in search of the cart pusher though without success. Another witness said when it became certain that the cart-pusher had run away with the woman’s commodities, she threatened to sue the man at their village juju shrine and leave the matter for the deity. “She threatened to drag the man before the shrine of their village deity that will go after the wheelbarrow pusher whether he is alive or dead,” the witness said. “The woman said she had just bought the items for her relations who are preparing for a white wedding. The wheelbarrow was filled to capacity and she decided to empty the contents into the booth of her car so that she could go back to continue with her purchases. But the man just disappeared,” the eye witness narrated further.