Curfew has been declared in parts of Taraba State where fresh violence broke out between Mambilla militia and Fulani youth. The situation deteriorated barely 24 hours after President Muhammadu Buhari visited the state. The president had met political and traditional leaders on the need to end the circle of violence and maintain the peace in the state. The state government declared the curfew in Mayo Ndaga in Sardauna Local Government Area of the state. A security meeting was also held in Gembu chaired by commandant 20 Battalion Serti with police zonal commander, Chief of Mambilla and Fulani leaders in attendance. It was gathered that during the meeting riot act was read with a warning that security personnel sent to all parts of Mambilla were combat ready and would restore peace and order and troublemakers would be dealt with. In Jalingo, the Taraba State capital, Governor Darius Ishaku also chaired a security meeting with police commissioner, Mr. David Akinremi, Director of state security service and the heads of all security agencies in the state. The senior special Assistant on media affairs to Governor Darius, Mr Bala Dan Abu, confirmed the meeting held but there was no  statement issued on the meeting. The Police Public Relation Officer Taraba State command, ASP David MiSal, did not answer calls made to his phone by our reporter but replied a text message saying “there is calm in the area now” Crisis erupted in the area last Wednesday following attacks on Fulani communities in Yarimaru area by suspected militia which later spread to other parts of the Mambilla plateau. The curfew was slammed on the area as more towns and villages came under attacks in the troubled Sardauna Local Government Area. Daily Trust gathered that Mambilla militia and Fulani youths engaged themselves in bloody fight leading to more killings and burning of houses. The attacks are said to have spread to parts of    Mayo Ndaga, Yarimaru,Kakara and Sherif up to towns on the Nigeria Cameroun border. ‘29 corpses recovered’ The chairman of the local government, Mr. Godwin Sol, told our reporter in a Telephone interview that as at Yesterday 29 corpses were recovered while search for many missing persons continued. He said many people were wounded and  several houses  burnt at Yelwa, Tunga,Maisamari and other places. Holiday seekers avoid Mambilla Meanwhile, tourists and holiday seekers from within and outside the country no stayed away from the Mambilla plateau because of insecurity, sources in the area told Daily Trust. Findings revealed that the number of tourists and holiday makers visiting the area once regarded as tourists haven has dropped drastically. Most hotels in Gembu, the headquarters of Sardauna, local government which used to received hundreds of guests on weekends, are now facing low patronage. The manager of Daula Hotel, a popular lodge in Gembu,  Malam  Haruna, said since the crisis began in June last year hospitality business in the area started experiencing low patronage. He said previously most hotels in the town were always booked especially during weekends and public holidays but now the story was different. Similarly business activities have also slowed down as people avoid coming to the area. Our findings also revealed that a number of business men and wealthy individuals have relocated to Serti in Gashaka local government area as well as Jalingo, the state capital. Some even crossed the border into Cameroun Republic. A resident of Gembu, Alhaji Ibrahim Musa, told Daily Trust that Mambilla Plateau was a dream destination for most Nigerians but because of crisis nobody wants to visit the area again. He challenged stake holders to encourage their people to live in peace with one another otherwise people would avoid the area completely.