Detectives attached to Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) have arrested another member of the gang suspected to have been involved in the killing of the Personal Assistant to the Chairman of the National Union of Road Transport Workers (NURTW), Lagos Island branch, Kunle Folly. The deceased Pinero was assassinated on January 23, 2018 at Idumota, Lagos Island, Lagos. The suspect, Gbolahan Olowokere, aka Motherless Junior, was arrested at the weekend. Sources said that he had confessed to the Police that he only drove Adeola Williams, aka Ade Lawyer in his wine-coloured Toyota Camry car with registration number KTU 173 EZ to Idumota, Lagos Island on the day of the incident. Though he denied taking part in the killing, he said he only drove Ade Lawyer to the scene of the killing. In his confessional statement to the police, he said Ade Lawyer never told him that they were on a mission to kill, stressing that, if he had known, he would not have driven him to the place. He said: “Ade Lawyer called me on January 22, 2018 while I was in Ibadan, Oyo State that I should come to Lagos on January 23, 2018 and drive him in his car to somewhere and because of our closeness I come to meet him on January 23, 2018. “On arrival, Ade Lawyer told me to drive him to somewhere in the evening, and on our way he said I should drive him to Adeniji Adele area of Lagos Island where we picked two men carrying a bag, but I did not know the content of the bag. “Ade Lawyer later told me to drive him straight to the Idumota bridge and he ordered me to park the car to be facing Mainland direction and remain inside. Ade Lawyer and his two colleagues left me inside the car and walked towards the Idumota foot bridge armed with guns. “But I was shocked as the next thing I saw was that Ade Lawyer and his colleagues started shooting at a direction and people started running helter-skelter and wailing. I immediately abandoned the car and ran away and traveled back to Ibadan, Oyo State, where I later heard that Ade Lawyer shot someone to death at Idumota. “I did not participate in the killing of Pinero, but only drove Ade Lawyer and his colleagues to the scene where the killing allegedly occurred.” Deputy Commissioner of Police, DCP in charge of FSARS, Lagos, Mr. Ibrahim Kaoje,, according to a source, said that he received a tip off from Ibadan, Oyo State that one of the suspects involved in the alleged killing of Pinero was hiding in Ibadan. The source said that following the report, Kaoje dispatched a team led by CSP Oluseye Odunmbaku to Ibadan to fish out the suspect and they arrested Olowokere at Soka area of Ibadan and brought him to Lagos.