Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said the Federal Government is building technological hubs in the public universities across the country. VP Osinbajo disclosed this Monday shortly before he declared open the 2018 Technology and Innovation Expo 2018 in Abuja. The Vice President also said the government in collaboration with the private sector would establish six science acquisition centres in each of the geopolitical zones in the country where youths would get to appreciate home grown scientific innovation. “Most recently,  president Buhari signed a presidential executive order, and  this administration’s 5th executive order; for supplying and execution of projects and programmes especially in the area of science, engineering and technology. As contained in executive Order Five, we will also establish centres for acquisition of technology in each of the geopolitical zones of the country. We will provide intervention funds that will strengthen research and development through training programmes and partnerships in Nigeria universities and polytechnics. ‘’We are also setting up technology hubs in universities in the six geopolitical zones. And this is important also as we do this to celebrate the creativity and innovation of many of our young Nigerians who are doing incredible things in science and technology. “As part of our own effort to create emerging environment for technology band innovation in Nigeria, President Buhari has approved a new science and technology innovation roadmap 2012-2030 for Nigeria. He has also approved National Strategy for Competitiveness in raw materials and product development in Nigeria. ‘’It is our intention as a government to utilise those initiative to stimulate global competiveness of our raw materials and support our ambition for a diversified economy”, he said. He said the World Bank has supported some NIgerian innovators with about $3 million, “the first tranche of which has already been disbursed”. He added: “I’m pleased to note that World Bank is committing an additional $3 million for six technology hubs across Nigeria in our universities.” He said in addition, the federal government planned to strengthen the technology and innovation ecosystem by supporting the development of new innovation hubs in partnership with the private sectors, “and this is well on course.” The Vice President further said: “We have recently concluded a competitive selection process of private sector entities that will implement and manage the hubs. Each of these hubs will focus solely the market challenges peculiar to the region of the country in which each is located. “We have elaborative team with the Bank of Industry with a semi-hub,which is private hub and all private sector entities to run a presidential technology innovation challenge in all Nigerian universities-public and private, and also some polytechnics in April of this year. Each university winner will be invited to an award event hosted by Mr.President. “We are also setting up technology hubs in universities in the six geopolitical zones. And this is important also as we do this to celebrate the creativity and innovation of many of our young Nigerians who are doing incredible things in science and technology.” He said the administration of president Buhari would develop a strong confident nation that is able to quickly identity and take advantage of emerging opportunities in a rapidly evolving world. Earlier the minister of science and technology, Dr Ogbonnaya Onu said there were signs that Nigeria is already onward march towards a new dawn in science. According to the minister, the number of patents granted to innovators and inventors in the country had risen to 50 by 2017 ending. “This is a clear evidence of a remarkable improvement in the level of innovation in Nigeria”, he said. 