Senator Ahmed Makarfi, a former governor of Kaduna State, in December 2017 handed over to Prince Uche Secondus after serving as National Caretaker Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). In this exclusive interview, he speaks about recent defections of some founding members of the party, the scheming about 2019 and other issues.  You handed over the PDP to a new crop of National Working Committee after what was termed as a successful convention; but the party is now hit by a gale of defections of founding fathers following the outcome of the convention. What do you make of this? It is sad for the party to lose anybody. But first of all, it is not as serious as reported because I noticed that some of the people alleged to have moved with them made statements that they were not part of that and the party is aware they have been calling people for meetings though not indicating to people exactly the purpose of the meeting. You know, politicians even for inquisitiveness can attend a meeting and you can easily use record of attendance to impugn what may have not happened.  In any contest there must be a winner and a loser. I just want them to be reasonable and rational. The Governor Dickson Committee has been reaching out to them and we commend him for what he is doing. The governors have been reaching out to aggrieved people; our governors are doing very well, our National Assembly members and many of us are doing very well in reaching out to aggrieved people. All hands are on deck. The overwhelming majority is in tune with that except a few who may not heed to that now. But, we hope down the line, they will see reason. As a matter of fact, I can’t speak for the PDP officially, but I know that it has been the principle of the party to work together with the SDP and other opposition parties to bring positive change in this country. So the separation of a few of them I hope is very temporal. Down the line, reconciliation, accommodation and mobilization may happen one way or the other. The NWC is doing its best to bring people in, the national chairman, individually has been doing a lot of work in order to bring harmony within the party. So with the multiplicity of efforts, there are no worries at all.  Let’s see what happens but we expect a lot more people to come into the PDP between now and April. We expect a lot of political movements, we may lose some, I am not ruling that out, but I believe we will gain hundred times more than what we may lose. As elections approach, you will see movements from one side to another and this time will not be an exception but I believe it will be towards PDP.  The allegation is that Prof. Jerry Gana, Prof Tunde Adeniran and others left because Governor Wike has hijacked the party and we also learnt that there was a meeting of PDP governors in Gombe recently, and the essence of the meeting was reportedly to stem the excessive influence of Wike in the PDP… The meeting of the governors had nothing to do with that.  About a month ago, all of them, including Governor Wike, met in Asaba where they resolved to be meeting every month; that the governors of the various states controlled by the PDP will be hosting the meeting on rotational basis. So it is a monthly meeting introduced by the PDP Governors’ Forum. It was not an issue of the governors themselves. Wait and see another governor hosting the next meeting.  But what about the insinuation that the governors want to get one of them as the presidential candidate? Why did the matter not surface in Asaba? Okowa hosted the first meeting and they resolved to be holding monthly meetings. I don’t know where the next meeting is scheduled but will it be because they want to pick a vice president?  All these insinuations because elections are approaching will be made but I can tell you that meeting was a monthly meeting of the governors and had nothing to do with the issues among the governors.  It is believed that you have done so much for the PDP, don’t you see yourself as being qualified to seek the party’s presidential ticket for the 2019 general elections? Even if I am eminently qualified, other people are also eminently qualified and it is a free issue. There should be a level playing field, everybody should be given equal chance - those who have shown interest and those who are yet to show interest. I am consulting and I will continue to consult, when I am done with my consultations then I will make my position known.  What will be your agenda for Nigeria in the event that you emerged the PDP’s candidate and won the election? Let me finish my consultations and take my decision then you can ask for the agenda. But as a PDP man, I believe the party should address economy, security and the divisiveness in our country as a priority.  All other issues are important but these three are the core issues that must be dealt with without delay.  This is pre-election year, but one of the chairmanship contenders who lost at the December 9 convention of the party is still in court challenging the outcome of the exercise. Are you not worried? I am not worried. What he is challenging is the election of the national chairman. The court can only say the election of national chairman should be repeated; it is not going to annul other elections; that is if it has to take a decision of that nature. So what are you talking about? And remember our new constitution has come in force and a deputy national chairman from the South West has emerged; so even if that judgement says that the election of the national chairman should be repeated, the contest can only be between the South South and South East because the deputy national chairman is from the South West.  And if it is only between those who contested, the contest will be between Secondus and Raymond Dokpesi. So people should wait and think and look at what is the prevailing situation. He is not challenging the convention, he is challenging the election of national chairman and the convention did a lot of things which are valid not only the election of the national chairman and those things have changed the narrative.  Do you see the new NWC as being capable of holding a transparent primary that would produce the party’s presidential candidate for 2019? Well, first of all, right now we don’t have what the rules of the game would be, what the enabling law is going to be. There is an existing law, the National Assembly has passed a new law; which one will be applied is a matter of time and each one has its own ramifications. The new one has a lot of ramifications for all political parties on how to nominate and it presents more challenges. So my concern is that we are approaching election and there are no clear rules of the game so to say, which can throw a lot of confusion for political parties and the earlier this is sorted out, the better so that the parties can have enough time to properly plan on how to conduct transparent nomination processes. Otherwise, not just the PDP, most parties would be affected by this chaotic situation. So I believe they are capable but the state of indecision as to what is the enabling law would throw all the political parties’ leadership into huge challenges.  So are you in support of the status quo? It is not about being in favour of status quo, what I mean is that this must be settled in good time to enable all political parties know the enabling law so that they can properly plan for a free and transparent process.  As someone who is likely to contest the presidential ticket of the PDP, how do you see the re-ordering of sequence of elections? It is a legal matter and whatever it is going to be, let it be settled in good time so that people will know what to plan with. If you don’t know what to plan with, it will affect the quality of what comes out of the process. But for me, I would take the more difficult one. So we are going to work hard as a party so that whichever way the elections are ordered we will win.  But primaries are just few months ahead based on the election timetable released by INEC……. Practically, Sallah (Eid-el Kabir) will be last week of August, can you foresee any party doing primaries before Sallah? When people are going on pilgrimage? Look at the reality of the situation of things. Practically, we should be talking of primaries starting in September, because you have to take into account events that are coming in along the line.  When will you declare to run for presidency? When I finish my consultations.  Which of the geo-political zones is likely to get the vice presidential slot? How can you know when the presidential candidate has not emerged? We know that the presidential candidate of the PDP will come from the North and the running mate from the South. From the North, can you say which part? No, you can’t. It is open to the North so the vice presidential ticket is also open to the South.  Do you think the Kaduna State chapter of the PDP is playing its opposition role properly? We are saving our energy. The APC, they are opposing themselves, undoing themselves, we should save our energy till when we need it most.  We are not in power, we should save our resources, when we hit it should be a fatal blow. Let them decimate themselves so that what will remain there will be just a roll over for us.  Have you been able to bring your people and those of the former vice president, Alhaji Namadi Sambo under one roof in Kaduna PDP? For me, I have never had any division. That is not to say some kinds of things did not exist in the state. There were differences, imaginary or real and we had to come in. Even the vice president made several statements, saying that was in the past, PDP is now one, all the people who associated with him also made such statements. I have not attended any state meeting that I did not find it all inclusive.  So will you have an edge over the APC in 2019? Yes, because the APC’s house is in complete disarray; it can’t get any better.  It can only get worse and wait till after the convention if they are able to do convention to ratify tenure extension, that is when the bobble will even boost. So we went through all of that and they have started their own nationally and state wise so let them come for lessons.  In the event that you successfully become the president of this country, how will you do things differently from the present administration of the APC? I mentioned that as a party man, I believe in first of all fixing the economy, security and divisiveness.  These will be addressed squarely; in all the ramifications and other issues. You have to be a listening president. You have to be a good keeper. Nigeria is endowed with good resources; you have to be a good mix. You need to delegate enough powers but supervise efficiently for them to deliver and get Nigeria out of the current situation that we are in and things will work. You have to listen to what Nigerians are saying. Some are saying restructuring; you have to listen to all these, that is what makes you a good leader. Don’t always tell people what they must do, always listen to them before you make a policy statement on what you will do or not do. It doesn’t take too much of time to consult wisely and widely across all segments of the society. Of course, don’t allow the creation of any cabal that is not for the good of Nigeria. The cabal should be ordinary Nigerians; address the issues affecting the people. Give attention to the private sector because it is the private sector that can be the greater employer of labour, you must also carry every segment of the society along.