President Muhammadu Buhari said yesterday his administration will invest all the necessary resources in developing the military might to crush Boko Haram insurgency. The president who paid a sympathy visit to the parents of abducted schoolgirls at Government Girls Science and Technical College Dapchi, said the insurgents would pay dearly for the abduction of schoolgirls in Chibok in 2014 and now Dapchi. He said he had read a comprehensive report on what the Federal Government was doing to rescue the schoolgirls in good health. “We’ll not spare Boko Haram. We’ll use our military might to crush them and provide lasting peace in the country. We have deployed police, including those in plain clothes, soldiers, Army, Navy and Air Force and other security operatives to continue searching until they rescue our children in good health,” he said. Asserting that much had been achieved against Boko Haram already, Buhari said, “The insurgents were before now, controlling some areas in Borno and some parts of Yobe but they have now been reduced to brainwashing of little children to commit suicide bombing in mosques, churches and other public places.” During a stakeholders' meeting in Damaturu, the president stated that he would negotiate for the unconditional release of the Dapchi schoolgirls. “I am here in Yobe State to express my sincere sympathy to the parents, government and all the people of Yobe whose daughters were abducted by the un-repentant terrorists. I want to reiterate our resolve to negotiate for the unconditional release of the girls,” he said. He pledged that any agency, person or group found to be negligent in the process that led to the abduction of the girls would be punished. Earlier welcoming the president at the Government House, Damaturu, Governor Ibrahim Gaidam expressed his appreciation to the federal government for its efforts for the state. He said, “I wish to express my deepest appreciation to Mr. President for the show of fatherly concern. So far Yobe State government has received four federal government delegations since the unfortunate incident, which shows that it has concern for its citizens.” Gaidam pledged the support of the people of Yobe state for the federal government in its efforts to rescue the abducted girls. The president visited the Government Girls Science and Technical College Dapchi, where he had face to face meeting with parents and students. The Chairman of Dapchi abducted schoolgirls parents, Bashir Manzo, said the prompt response by the president and his visit had renewed their hope that government was willing to reunite them with their children.