National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), John Odigie- Oyegun, yesterday, met with the Senate President, Bukola Saraki and all APC senators over alleged plot to override President Muhammadu Buhari on amendment to the Electoral Act. Buhari had in a letter read on March 13, this year at both chambers rejected the amendment made to the 2010 ElectoralAct by the National Assembly, citing three constitutional matters. The rejection polarised the APC caucus at the Senate into two. While a camp led by a former governor of Nasarawa State, Abdullahi Adamu was mobilising for the president, the second camp purportedly being supported by the leadership of the Senate was said to be plotting the override. It was gathered that Oyegun convened the meeting to halt the planned move.  The meeting which had key members of the National Working Committee (NWC) of the APC in attendance was held at the Senate wing of the National Assembly. Our correspondent reports that the meeting which started by 3.02pm lasted till 5.30pm. Newsmen were excused after the opening ceremony of the meeting. Earlier during the opening ceremony, Oyegun said the meeting was convened to discuss issues affecting the party and its members. “I’m glad to be here again. I don’t think I’m here often enough. It’s a good opportunity to discuss general issues. Issues that have arisen from the polity, the reality of an election in less than a year, 11 months, 10 months if you want to be economical. “And some interests that bind us together. We are here to talk, we are here to listen, we are here to strategize on best way as we are approaching the critical months ahead. That is the 2019 election,” he said. Addressing newsmen at the end of the meeting, the Senate Leader, Ahmad Lawan said the party would soon constitute a team comprising the executive, legislators, governors and members of the party to broker peace in the party. Lawan who described the meeting as frank and worthwhile, said the issue of election sequence and others would be addressed by the committee when constituted. He said on election sequence, “That is only a symptom, the discussion centred on so many things including that.”