Culture is defined as the way of life of a group of people. This includes what we eat, wear, as well as our music. Nigeria as a multicultural country, is blessed with different varieties of meals, depending on the region it is eaten. However, some may not have had the opportunity of going to other parts where other delicacies are prepared and eaten. All of them are quite different and unique, especially, when it comes to native foods and cultural delicacies. Their food mainly depends on the ingredients that are produced in a particular area. We have compiled a list of some Nigerian delicacies you may not know about Masa: This is one delicacy that cannot and should not escape your notice when you visit Northern Nigeria. This meal is similar to a pan fried rice cake, though the method of preparation varies a little across households but the basic premise never changes. Masa has a round shape and it is eaten with either ‘miyan taushe’ or ‘yaji’, accompanied with pap, kunun gyada or kunun tsamiya. Gwate: Also known as ‘Tere’ in local parlance, Gwate is made from ‘Acha’ (fonio or hungry rice). It is prepared with lots of vegetables like garden eggs, spinach, white Zobo leaves, biscuit bone etc. it is eaten by the people of Plateau state and Kaduna. Abacha: Popularly known as ‘African salad’, this local delicacy is a ‘desert’ from Eastern Nigeria and it is usually served after or before meals as appetizers at traditional events such as weddings, coronations, festivals,etc. Amora: This meal is common among the Southern people of Plateau State, particularly those from Shendam. It’s a porridge made from a starch plant. Gbegiri (Beans soup): This is a soup made from beans and it is easy to make and also tasty. This is a traditional Nigerian soup that is specific to the Yoruba People. Since there are a variety of Nigerian Soups, Gbegiri is one of them. Tofu: Known as ‘Awara’, it is a healthy and tasty snack made from Soya beans. Though it’s a snack, it is also one of the best that can be found in Northern Nigeria. It is made into curds gotten from Soya milk and tied in an airtight bag to remove the water after which it is fried and eaten with a spicy sauce or ‘yaji’. Nkwobi: Nkwobi is a popular Igbo traditional meal that can be served as a dish or desert, accompanied with drinks. This mouth-watering delicacy is usually made from cow leg which is the main ingredient prepared in spicy palm oil and mixed spices. Hence it is very rich and tasty if prepared well, and many people love it.  