Federal Government has been called upon to urgently take drastic measures to address the incessant challenges facing country’s education sector. This call was made by the Policy Adviser of Civil Society Action Coalition On Education for All (CSACEFA), Chioma Osuji, during a press briefing organised by, CSACEFA in conjunction with One Campaign and Malala Fund, in Abuja, on Friday. “We the Civil Society Coalition on Education for All (CSACEFA), an umbrella body of NGOs working in the area of education in Nigeria, the One Campaign and the Malala Fund is seizing this opportunity to call on the President Federal Republic of Nigeria, Muhammadu Buhari and the Honourable Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu to urgently come up with concrete measures to address the incessant challenges in the education sector. “We can no longer continue to relegate the important of sector of the economy to the background when we are aspiring to be among the top world economies”. She said that over the years education has been receiving low priority and attention both at the national and state levels. According to her, the key issues that needed urgent attention include, lack of security, poor funding, teacher development, poor teaching and learning environment among others. Speaking earlier, the National Moderator of CSACEFA, Kabiru Aliyu, urged government to put all mechanism in place to ensure the safe release of both the remaining Chibok and recently abducted Dapchi girls. He said that Government should increase security measures in all the schools across the country especially in the North East. In her remark, the Country Director of  a Non Governmental Organisation (NGO), One Campaign, Serah Makka Ugbabie called on the President and Honourable Minister of Education to ensure that all children irrespective of gender, religion or location have access to safe quality education and quality well motivated teachers. She said that the country should have a coordinated Education Management Information System (EMIS) at the national, state and local government levels. According to her, Education Management Information System (EMIS) would inform proper planning and budgeting. Also speaking, the Country Representative of Malala Fund, Crystal Ikanin-Musa, charged Federal Government to increase budgetary allocation to education and put up sanction on the state government that failed to access the UBE funds. She said Government should publish and make accessible all UBE and TETFUND allocation to basic education and tertiary education respectively. She also called on Government to fund vocational and entrepreneurship skills in schools from basic education to tertiary level to promote long-life learning to address the issue of unemployment in the society. 