The intensity of the ongoing Lassa fever outbreak has waned in recent weeks, but the Nigeria Centre for Disease Control says it is intensifying response. New cases have reduced over the last five weeks, the centre says. But “surveillance data from previous outbreaks indicate that the typical peak transmission season for Lassa fever has not passed, so it is important to continue to strengthen surveillance and response activities,” the centre’s chief executive Chikwe Ihekweazu said in a statement. In the last week of its epidemiological report, laboratory tests confirmed only 18 new infections positive for Lassa fever. But NCDC says rapid response teams will remain in the most affected states while it intensifies prevention practice and social mobilisation. Since January 1, a total 394 infections have been confirmed positive for Lassa fever and 95 people have died from it. NCDC and the World Health Organisation has asked residents in Edo, Ondo and Ebonyi—three most affected states—to continue focus on prevention and good hygiene to discourage rodents from entering homes. The centre advises storing grains and other foodstuff in rodent-proof containers, proper disposal of garbage far from the home, and maintaining clean households. “All foods must be cooked thoroughly, and family members should always be careful to avoid contact with blood and body fluids while caring for sick persons,” it said. Lassa fever is a viral infection caused by the Lassa fever virus, primarily transmitted to humans through direct contact, eating food or drinking water contaminated with urine, faeces, saliva or blood of infected rats. Person-to-person transmission is through contact with blood, urine, saliva, throat secretion or semen of an infected person. The disease can be treated, with early presentation to a healthcare facility greatly increasing the chances of survival. Early signs of the disease include sudden fever, sore throat and general body weakness. The centre calls on health workers to maintain “a high index of suspicion” for Lassa fever when handling patients, irrespective of their health status. Lassa fever should be considered in patients with fever, headache and malaise, in whom malaria has been ruled out with a rapid diagnostic test (RDT), especially when patients are not getting better.