The Transition Monitoring Group (TMG), a coalition of over 400 Civil Society Organizations (CSOs), on Tuesday advocated strict adherence to due process in amending the Electoral Act. The group said the interest of the country should be paramount in carrying out the process, calling on President Muhammadu Buhari and the National Assembly to thread with caution. It would be recalled that the National Assembly had amended the Electoral Act 2006 reordering the 2019 election time-table released by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). While INEC fixed Presidential and National Assembly election for February 16, 2019 and March 2 for Governorship and State Assembly elections, the Senate and House of Representatives reordered the election sequence in such a way that the presidential election would hold last. However, President Buhari declined assent to the amendment with the NASS members threatening to veto the president assent. The election observation group Chairperson, Dr. Abiola Akiyode-Afolabi expressed worry about the unfolding controversy, warning that “the best interest of the Nigerian voter, not political brinkmanship should determine the outcome of the amendment process”. “As things stand now, TMG is concerned that the controversy trailing the amendment process is driven more by narrow political calculations, than the push for an electoral process that is credible and one which guarantees the supremacy of the voices of the Nigerian electorate”, Akiyode-Afolabi was quoted in a statement signed by TMG Communication Officer, Olusola Babalola. Akiyode-Afolabi called on the political actors across the executive and legislative arms to ensure that the rule of law prevails as they advance their various positions on the amendment process. She said, “It is imperative to make the Nigerian electoral system better and it is our considered view that the best way out of the logjam, is to put the quest of the Nigerian voter for free, fair and credible elections at the fore front of the discussions. “TMG is also worried about the fact that all through the process of amendment at the National Assembly, there were several critical issues which were relegated to the background. This created an unproductive narrative in which the controversial change of the sequence of election became the main talking point of the amendment process”. She stressed the need for stakeholders to and relevant actors to immediately begin moves to de-escalate the growing controversy, and work harmoniously towards putting in place an appropriate legal framework for the 2019 polls. “Discharging that responsibility means removing the air of uncertainty precipitated by the current amendment controversy, and ensuring that all is in place to make the votes of all Nigerians count, come 2019”, she added.