Media Trust Limited, publishers of the Trust titles, is organising its 20th anniversary to reflect and plan for the future, Chairman and Founder of the company, Malam Kabiru Yusuf, has said. The media mogul spoke during a press conference with senior editors in Abuja ahead of the 20th anniversary of the company next week. He said the Weekly Trust was started because “We wanted a job. And we tried to create one. And we are 20 years old.” Yusuf who traced the genesis of the Trust titles said it all started in a single room at Kaduna with the Weekly Trust, which was initially published on Fridays. “The Weekly title started during the military regime of the late Sani Abacha but we were determined to be our own selves and not to be dictated to,” he said. “Within months General Abdulsalami Abubakar took over with the promise of returning the country to politics and we then thought of going daily with a political newspaper,” Yusuf said. He said despite the initial challenges of sustainability, the company weathered the storm for 20 years. He said in the last two decades, the Media Trust “had been quite adventurous with new titles.”  He said after starting the Weekly Trust (now Daily Trust on Saturday) in March 1998 in Kaduna, the company began a daily publication in Abuja in January 2001. The Daily Trust on Sunday (formerly Sunday Trust) was introduced in July 2006, a Hausa vernacular publication, Aminiya in March 2006, Teen Trust in 2015, and Trust Sports in 2017, the veteran journalist said. Media Trust also publishes a pan-African newsmagazine, The Kilimanjaro, a women style magazine, Tambari, and another sporting publication, the Golf Digest. While acknowledging that poor cash flow had threatened the company in the past, Yusuf, however, said: “We have been lucky and have broken even a long time ago.” He said the challenges were there but “Our overall aim is to do a product that is generally acceptable.” He said, “We’ll continue to have challenges, but we’ll also try to deal with them as they come.” He said the 20th anniversary is “celebrating surviving 20 years, and time to reflect, and thank God that we’re still around.” The event scheduled for March 22, will feature veteran journalists and media proprietors who will discuss “Journalism as business - news, views, and advertising.” He said the company now has a head office in Abuja, publishes simultaneously from its own presses in Abuja, Lagos, Kano, Maiduguri, and very soon from Sokoto. Responding to a question on why the Trust titles do not advertise certain products like liquor, tobacco as well as false medical claims, Yusuf said: “We don’t want to encourage their usage because they can be dangerous products.” He said the future of the company lies in digital technology, while also disclosing that there were plans to list it on the Stock Exchange so that interested investors could be giving the opportunity to own shares in the media outfit.