The 40th National Council on Establishment (NCE) meeting in Owerri, Imo State among others reviewed the implementation of the age-long dichotomy of the BSc (University) and HND (Polytechnic) graduates career progression in the federal civil service among other issues in the nation’s bureaucracy.  Governor Rochas Okorocha at the opening, charged civil servants to think outside the box and develop new ideas for the country to move forward. The governor said that the Civil Service which is the engine room in the formulation and implementation of policies and programmes needs to change its mind-set. He said the Civil Service needed to be repackaged for development to take place and remunerations should be looked into. In her keynote address, the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation (HoCSF) Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita reiterated that the Civil Service is a foremost institution that has sustained the unity of Nigeria and ensured smooth transition of power. She however acknowledged the need for fresh ideas to tackle the dwindling resources, the challenge of socio-economic and infrastructural development in Nigeria. According to her, the drive for innovation and change should be a motivating force in the desire to improve on the systems, procedures, processes, regulations and operational guidelines in the service. The Head of Civil Service said that 18 issues/memoranda referred to the Standing Committee at its 39th Minna meeting have been further evaluated and thoroughly examined and that the report of findings and recommendations are part of the memoranda. Chairman Technical Session spoke too In his address, the Permanent Secretary, Service, Policies and Strategies Office (SPSO), Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mr Ndubuisi Osuji said the decisions of the 39th NCE which included uniform Scheme of Service for all category of Nurses with common nomenclature of ‘Nursing Officers’; Internship for graduate Nurses who do not possess the professional registered Nurse/Registered Midwife qualification; Enhancing entry Salary Grade Level 08 for all category of Higher National Diploma (HND) holders; and creation of Assistant Education  Officers Cadre SGL 07-14 for candidates with requisite qualification in Special Education, have been fully implemented through various circulars, as well as  conveyed to the relevant stakeholders that originated the memoranda. He said the meeting considers 80 memoranda comprising of 18 referred cases and 62 new ones, submitted by the Federal and State Governments as well as other agencies and stakeholders.  At the end of the five-day meeting, the council resolved that Kano State will host the 41st meeting in 2019 as contained in the communiqué jointly signed by Mrs Oyo-Ita and Mr Osuji who also chaired the Technical Session.