Relationships happen every other day, so do marriages. And couples are usually given pieces of advice that can help them achieve a lasting relationship or marriage. This week, we are taking advices from men regarding how women can keep their men and make them happy.  Ummi Aliyu, 42-year-old teacher, speaking from experience says, “Ladies, respect your man, don’t pick up unnecessary fights with him simply to test his love for you. Women also have this bad habit of discussing their men with family, friends and even colleagues. This is a bad habit that must be stopped. Do not discuss him with your friends and family, keep his secrets and lastly do not stalk him. I see stalking is the latest trend these days.” Bashir Nurudeen, 40- year-old engineer, says, “As much as prayer is necessary, other characters are important too. Patience they say is a virtue for every woman. Most women also have issues with over assumption which is disgusting and something that kills the relationship faster than anything. When in doubt please ask. Assumption in a relationship only gets things worse.” Henry Raymond, 39-year-old architect, says, “Every man wants to be respected. Any woman that does not respect her man is only inviting trouble. Respect him, be humble and honest. Fights occur in relationships but a simple apology can solve the whole thing. No man likes a woman who has too much ego; it kills the relationship faster than anything else.” Gidado Salisu, 40-year-old banker, says, “No woman should ever compare her man with other men or her friends’ men.  Women have this habit of comparing their men to other men when he is financially down. Comparing him to others can be demoralizing and will surely put a strain on the relationship. Instead, you should encourage and pray for him, don’t ever think you are losing your self-worth by doing so. In fact, by doing so, you’ll win his heart. Respect, understanding and good communication is the food of a relationship. Men value respect than sex or food. Never allow a third party in your relationship.  Understand that there is no perfect guy. Encourage, pray, stand by him in all circumstances.” Bamidele Hassan, 40-year-old accountant, says, “Do not always complain over little things. Limit your friends circle; most men don’t like a girl with too much friends. Be concerned and show support in all he does. Appreciate his effort, encourage him, respect him, trust him, pray for him and understand him. Don’t hurt his ego in any way; always allow him feel like the captain of the house. Don’t throw words at him carelessly, be sensitive enough to read your man’s mood, men have moods too you know. And lastly, never shout at your man no matter what.”