The Deputy Speaker of Ondo State House of Assembly, Honourable Iroju Ogundeji has lamented that members of the legislative arm in the state were in bondage and suffering. Ogundeji said this when he received the National President of Nigerian Union of Local Government Employees (NULGE), Comrade Ibrahim Khaheel and representatives Civil Society Organizations at the Assembly complex on behalf of the Speaker, Honourable Oloyeloogun Bamidele David. NULGE and rights activists were at the Assembly on advocacy to appeal to the legislators to pass the bill on the Local Government autonomy which was stepped down in the ongoing constitutional amendment. The meeting was facilitated by DFID’s Partnerships to Engage, Reform & Learn (PERL) / Engaged Citizen Partnership (ECP) as part of a one-day dialogue on the constitution amendment. The NULGE President told the Deputy Speaker and other principal officers of the House that granting autonomy to local government would benefit the people that the lawmakers represent and charged the legislators to pass the bill without hesitation. While speaking, the Deputy Speaker said the legislative arm in the state itself needed autonomy given the suffering experienced by the lawmakers in the hand of the executive arm of government in the state. “Look at the environment of this House of Assembly; look at this room where we are sitting. You can see that we are suffering. If you stay long in this room, you might suffocate. I can see that you are already sweating because of heat. So, we are hoping that we will be liberated with the autonomy bill in this constitutional amendment. Therefore, we are together on the issue of autonomy. It is a collective struggle. On behalf of the Speaker and the entire members of the Ondo State House of Assembly, we assure you we will revive the bill on the local government autonomy and do the needful. There is a lacuna in the constitution of Nigeria. We have three arms of government. If the principle of separation of power would be achieved, each arm of government must be independent particularly as far as funding is concerned. But, as it is now, the state houses of Assembly are not independent in terms of funding. We are under the bondage of the executive that control the funds. Therefore, autonomy is just like freedom and we all need freedom to perform our functions. When you don’t have the independence of fund and you have to go cap in hand begging for what is due to you to work, then there is a problem. So, the bill on the autonomy of local government would be passed and transmitted to the National Assembly.”