The 3100 Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) trained by the National Directorate of Employment (NDE) in Yobe have appealed to federal government for urgent grant to enable them establish their own businesses. The IDPs are those living in host and returnees communities that received training in their chosen trades across the 17 local government areas of the state.  Speaking to Daily Trust during the Flag-off of Basic Business Training (BBT) workshop organised by the NDE, on Tuesday in Damaturu, leader of the group, Mohammed Lamuwa, said they had acquired basic business skills that would enable them contribute wealth to the state and the nation.  "We have acquired all the business skills now we are appealing to the federal government to urgently provide us with resettlement grant for self-reliance so as to contribute wealth to our state." "We  were trained in barbing, tailoring, tiles and Inter-lock making. While the women acquired training on sewing, knitting, hair dressing, cosmetology and other food processing. All we need from government are the trade equipment", he said.  The State Coordinator, NDE, Yunusa W Umar, said BBT training would prepare the graduants on how to utilize the grant given to them to succeeds in their businesses. "In essence, they all acquired the practical vocational skills in the previous training. Now, we are teaching them how to run their chosen businesses. That is the basic aspects of entrepreneurship", he said.  He noted that the BBT training has commenced in all the three senatorial zones of the state, while calling on the participants to fully concentrate so as to convert the knowledge acquired into usage.  On whether the NDE would resettled the trainees, he said "The NDE is purely responsible for the training, but definitely government would come in for the resettlement after the training. We also placed the beneficiaries on monthly stipents to ease transportation difficulty throughout the excercise".  He also explained that the beneficiaries were shared among the 17 local government areas of the state, adding that the distribution was made base on the scale of damage caused by Boko haram insurgency in the affected councils.  "The most affected LGAs got the highest number; Gujba, 605; Gulani, 582; Damaturu, 550; and the remaining 1,363 was spread among the other 14 LGAs", he said.