The Olukere of Ikere-Ekiti, Oba Ganiyu Obasoyin, yesterday punctured the claim of the Ekiti State Council of Traditional Rulers that he should not be addressed as a king since he was yet to be recognized as such by the state government. Olukere, while speaking with reporters in his palace in Ikere-Ekiti on Sunday said he remains an Oba since he was made so by his community under which he derives his sovereignty and not from the Council. He said it was wrong for the Council to issue a statement and address newsmen to say that he should not be addressed as an Oba when a panel set up by the body on his status was yet to release its report. The Chairman of the Council of Obas, the Oloye of Oye-Ekiti, Oba Oluwole Ademolaju, has issued a statement last Thursday where he directed the Olukere to stop being addressed as such since he was yet to be recognized as one by the state government. But Obasoyin described the latest drama playing out as “the hand of Esau and the voice of Jacob”, adding that nothing can obliterate the institution of Olukere which he said has been in existence for ages. His words: “I was not the person that made Olukere an Oba; before I was born, Olukere had been known as an Oba in the whole of Yoruba land even though he had not gotten letter of recognition from the government. Writing to the Council to get recognition from the government does not indicate that the Olukere does not exist or that it has nothing to do with the institution of that obaship.” “I want you to know that the institution of Olukere precedes or predates the creation of Ekiti State itself. The institution of Olukere has been there before Ekiti State was created. “Government does not make an Oba, government only recognizes Oba; it is the people of the community that make an Oba. “The Council of Obas visited me here in this palace sometime last year and they saw all what we have in this palace including artifacts, historical sites and the pictures of the past Olukeres and they saw them in their crowns. “I believe if they have anything against such, they would have raised it when they visited me then but I don’t want to engage my most respected Obas in any war of words.”