A chieftain of the All Progressives Congress (APC) and political associate of President Muhammadu Buhari, Hajiya Najatu Muhammad, has said the sack of the former acting director general of National Intelligence Agency (NIA) Ambassador Muhammed Dauda is a set back to the president’s his anti-graft war. In a statement weekend, the Kano-based politician wondered why Mr Dauda who allegedly exposed corruption at the agency was sacked, while his predecessor Ambassador Ayodele Oke who was indicted over the Ikoyi Towers cash haul was only retired and never prosecuted. She said while Mr Oke who was indicted over the Ikoyi Towers N14 billion was only retired and even prevented by the Department of the State Security (DSS) from being arrested by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), his successor was being hunted and humiliated. She said a report of the committee set up by the President and headed by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo to probe Mr Oke has long been swept under the carpet. “Yet another committee was inaugurated and presided over by Ambassador Baba Gana Kingibe, while the incumbent DG of the NIA, Amb. Ahmed Rufa'i Abubakar was appointed as the secretary. The same Ahmed Rufa'i Abubakar, who was Kingibe’s personal assistant for several years while serving in Dafur,” she said. Najatu said “the Kingibe committee recommended in part that for an officer to qualify as DG of the agency he has to be serving officer not below the rank of a director. Currently in the NIA there are five directors who must be retired from service following the appointment of Ahmed Rufa'i who retired five years ago as a deputy director.” She lamented that “Nigeria is a country unfortunately run by individuals who by sheer luck happened to be within the corridors of power always appearing to be fighting corruption while they have stolen millions of public funds, others with God fathers are simply shielded from trial or prosecution, while the innocent are chased, haunted and persecuted.” “The question that every discerning Nigerian would ask here is why was Amb. Dauda dismissed from service? What has he done to warrant out right dismissal? Was the $44 million in question stolen or pilfered? The answer is No. The  funds were in fact evacuated to the office of the NSA for protection and safe custody against the preying eyes of those individuals hell bent on looting it. The President was adequately briefed on this development by the NSA,” she said. Najatu, who recently rejected an appointment by President Buhari, said “this attitude must change if our dear country is to move forward.” She said she’s advising the president because of her zeal for him to succeed and Nigeria to be better. “I have been with President Muhammadu Buhari politically for quite a long time, and I want those close to him to tell him I would continue to say the truth and maintain my stance on national issues whenever the need arises. It is my inalienable right to speak the truth. “When I was imprisoned, beaten, poisoned by previous government for criticizing them must of you eating from the crumps of those govts were against me, so I still don't expect you to be with me on this one,” she said. “You can keep your choice, but never interfere with mine. When I was in the political trenches fighting to make this government a reality where were you?” she said.