In spite of the many laws governing arrest, detention and bail in Nigeria, there is no standard guideline on the three subjects, a study on the police bail process carried out by the Bureau of Public Service Reforms (BPSR) has shown. One the most celebrated laws in the country is the Administration of Criminal Justice Act (2015). Section 1 of the Act says: “The  purpose  of  this  Act  is  to  ensure that  the  system  of  administration  of criminal justice in Nigeria promotes efficient management of criminal justice  institutions,  speedy  dispensation  of  justice,  protection  of  the society  from  crime  and  protection  of  the  rights  and  interests  of  the suspect, the defendant, and the victim” The BPSR report on bail application and processes in police stations presented in Abuja by Mrs. Mojisola Akpojiyovbi  after studies were conducted in Enugu, FCT, Kano and Lagos State listed the role of the police in criminal justice as prevention and detection of crime, apprehension of offenders, preservation of law and order, and protection of life and property. The report says in the provisions of the ACJA 2015, it is illegal for the police, inter alia, to arrest people who have no ostensible means of sustenance and cannot give satisfactory account of himself, arrest other people in lieu of suspects,and to arrest persons over civil wrongs. It said where arrests are carried out, suspects must be notified of the cause of arrest and arrested persons must be notified of their rights, including right to free legal representation and right to bail. “Suspects taken into custody must have an inventory of their property taken and duly signed by themselves or their legal representatives, application to remand suspects in custody is based on demonstration of probable cause before a magistrate and must not exceed 56 days, suspects kept in custody pending bail, trial or release must be under strict monitoring by appropriate agencies,” the report said. It observed that suspects are seldom told they are under arrest until it is decided that they will be taken into detention and once it is decided that theyare taken into detention they are advised to contact relations. According to the report, eligibility for bail is determined by the magnitude of crime and bail is denied where there is a flight risk, suspect will interfere with investigation, a surety cannot be established, suspect is unable to meet the terms of bond set and non-bailable offences are transferred immediately to the CIID or to SARS if offence is armed robbery. The report bemoaned the challenge of structure, while observing a centralized and complex command structure that leaves all power and control with Force HQ, constant deployment and reassignment of men across commands, state commands having differing laws in operation, state commands having different customs and cultures, police officers are potentially able to request transfers to more ‘lucrative’ commands and multiple channels of arrest because of different formations and specialized units. It said the chain of command is often too long, instructions get lost in transmission and lower ranks operate with more autonomy than is due and apart from the Crime Bureau where officers have to be certified for investigation, there are no specializations and officers get transferred across functions even as transfers are frequent and can be influenced. While looking at foreign jurisdictions, the report said in addition to various laws to guide arrest, detention and bail, Britain and Kenya have developed detailed guidelines to reduce discretion. The report suggests reforming the police bail process through a standardized approach and practice with regard to arrest, detention and bail, training police officers on compliance, improve synergy between police formations with responsibility for arrest and detention and establish functional supervisory mechanism and internal control system to enhance existing provost system among others. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Mr. Boss Mustapha, who was Represented by the Permanence Secretary (PS) General Services Office (GSO) in the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) Mr. OlusegunAdekunle at the presentation of the report, said the federal government was making effort to establish at least one police forensic laboratory in each of the six geo-political zones in the country to enhance their investigation capacity. He said the government had put in place short-term measures to combat kidnapping across the country, including tighter police methods, swift and severe punishment for those proved to be engaged in the act. The Acting Director General of the BPSR, Mr.DasukiArabi, said the study was carried out in three phases with the first phase in the FCT, phase in Enugu, Kano and Lagos states while the third phase was in Borno, Edo and AkwaIbom states police commands.