Non-academic staff of the University of Jos have warned parents against allowing their children who were recently given admission to resume. The national union of non-academic staff has been on strike for some months, but the university management asked the new intakes, through media advertisement, to resume and commence registration. It was gathered that the university intends to commission some people to register the students. Following that development, the union held an emergency meeting, where they vowed to resist the action, saying such amounts to taking over their jobs. Speaking with newsmen on behalf of the staff, Secretary of the Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities, University of Jos branch, Anthony Joro, said in the process of resisting the attempt to use outsiders to perform their duties, there could be friction and it could affect the students. “This particular meeting combined the three unions that form the non-teaching staff of the University of Jos. One of the major agenda at the meeting is that recently the university management publicized that the newly admitted students should come and commence registration, beginning from March 5, 2018. And basically, the responsibility or onus of the process of registration for the new intakes and even the continuing students rests on the non-teaching staff. The academic office people are all non-teaching staff. The student affairs staff are non-teaching staff, apart from the head, who is the Dean. The hostels are manned and supervised by non-teaching staff. Equally, the health centers are manned by the non-teaching staff. “All those places mentioned are parts of the areas the students must go through during registration. So, the union is now saying that if we are on strike, why should the university go ahead and announce the commencement of registration? That is why we think it is an indirect way of taking our jobs. They are either trying to commission some people outside to do the job or ask the sister union, the teaching/academic staff union, to do it. But regardless of whoever they want to use, we are telling the management that we will resist such attempt. “That is why we are warning the students not to come and commence the registration, because in the event of a face-off between the non-teaching staff and anyone commissioned to do the job, the students could be affected. Besides, such friction in Jos could generally spark widespread violence. Parents are seriously warned against allowing their children to come for registration,” he said. Regarding the strike, he said the union and the government reached an agreement in 2009, but that till date, government is yet to keep its side of the bargain. 