Nigerians have reacted to the comment by the former minister of defence, Gen TY Danjuma (retired), calling on Nigerians to defend themselves or risk massacre. Danjuma,while speaking on Saturday at the maiden convocation ceremony of Taraba State University in Jalingo,accused the Nigerian Armed Forces of aiding attacks by bandits on communities across the country, warning that if such attacks continued, the consequences would make what happened in Somalia a child’s play. While some Nigerians applauded Danjuma for speaking out against the killings,others have condemned the former general and accused him of fueling the seeming unending killings. Below are some of the comments:  Having listened and re-listened to TY Danjuma, for him to say the Armed Forces are the enemy of the people, colluding with armed bandits to kill Nigerians and for people to resort to self-help, one thing is clear, he's calling for chaos and anarchy. This is not healthy.
— Mr. Aye Dee (@MrAyeDee) March 25, 2018  As defence Minister under Obasanjo, TY Danjuma supervised the Zaki Biam Massacre (Benue), Odi Massacre (Bayelsa) and Tiv/Jukun crises in his home state Taraba.

But it's apparently clear that most of you here are mad.

Buhari & all these old lousy men will go and leave you here.
— Engr. Adamu Hayatu™ (@AHayatu) March 25, 2018  "Aisha is closest person to Buhari she should have addressed him in private"

"OBJ has direct access to the President, he shouldn't have chastised him in Public" 

"TY Danjuma is a former Defense Minister and Buhari holds him highly he should have talked to him privately"
— Mr. Jack Robinson (@jackdre02) March 25, 2018  .@amnesty did not call on civilians to arm themselves like T Y Danjuma did, they called on @MBuhari  to act, that is protect ALL in 🇳🇬, maybe if you had trained under @amnesty you would not have converted Nigerian Human Rights Commision into an arm of @OfficialPDPNig Learn! https://t.co/b6aQz2Xwyr
— Kayode Ogundamisi (@ogundamisi) March 25, 2018  Nigeria's former Chief of Army Staff and Minister of Defence, TY Danjuma, has passed a vote of no confidence on the Nigerian Military. He accused them of collusion in many killings across the country. 

There is a problem.
— Nnamdi Anekwe-Chive (@nnamdianekwe) March 24, 2018  Look, those of you who think this is the time to debate Ty Danjuma's eligibility for sainthood are missing the point. 

You have an Expansionist army sweeping across the country and  Danjuma is saying that your Army is colluding with them. Please let's focus on the key issues
— EchoChambers Are Bae by Gene Peterson (@EuginhoCortez) March 24, 2018  TY Danjuma is not a man who's reckless with words. He's a retired Army General, Chief of Army staff and fmr Defence minister. Take his words with all seriousness.
— Daddy Vladimir (@femiTRIP) March 24, 2018  .@BillGates spoke, they said he's a dropout. Danjuma spoke, they labeled him anarchist. Obasanjo spoke, they say he has Messiah complex. IBB spoke, they arrested his spokesman. Kukah spoke, they told him to shut up. Nigerians spoke, they threatened us with death for hate speech!
— Reno Omokri (@renoomokri) March 25, 2018  Arise Nigerians.....! 🇳🇬

TY Danjuma is calling on all capable Nigerian youths with brighter future ahead to start killing each other after he has made fortunes, sent his children abroad to safe zones & has exhausted his remaining life span! 

Are you ready? 😎😎😎
— Engr Mustapha - MNSE (@Engineer_Musty) March 25, 2018  I have always had the highest regards and respects for Gen. Danjuma. The respects I have seen his colleagues like the President and Fmr Heads of State pay to him has always humbled me. His latest comments however, saddened me. For it has potential tragic consequences
— Ismaeel (@IsmaeelAhmedB) March 25, 2018  Since yday ive been checking the location of those supporting the reckless comments by TY Danjuma & u know what? Majority of them are not in Taraba. Which is y its easier for them to support this barbaric statement cos when the killings continue on both sides, it wont reach them
— Salihu Tanko Yakasai (@dawisu) March 25, 2018  Eskis sir Danjuma, we that don’t have AK47 how fo do now?

Should we come and collect one and can we test/practice it in your compound?
— Adeola Mary Slessor (@Adeola0503) March 24, 2018  T.Y Danjuma subtly called for a revolution. 

What does he know that we don’t? 

One thing we know is T.Y Danjuma is hopelessly frustrated with this Govt. I am sure he might later wish he never said those words. However, his frustration was complete, the words couldn’t hold back.
— EEU. 🇳🇬 (@royaltyuso) March 25, 2018  Danjuma supported Buhari but drew the line for APC when it came to Taraba - no chance in hell he was going to allow APC govern his home state.

These people always have selfish interests but when it aligns with our general societal desire which is #BackToDaura2019, it’s all good.
— Demola Olarewaju (@DemolaRewaju) March 24, 2018  Until TY Danjuma shows any of his family member holding AK47 ready for battle, those supporting his careless talks need to re-examine their heads
— Souljah (@jeffphilips1) March 25, 2018  I don't care what TY Danjuma did in the past, but if a retired Military General comes out to say the Military cannot be trusted and you should defend your state/territory, then there is fire on the mountain!
— Umeh and 99 others (@UmehOMA) March 25, 2018  The Nigeria military response to Gen TY Danjuma is worth examining. 
A careful analysis of the statement revealed that the military is not denying that there are some members of the armed forces involved in killings and kidnappings. The statement is next
— Waheed Alabede (@wFalabede) March 24, 2018