Former Governor of Cross River State, Mr. Donald Duke has blamed the seemingly unending farmers-herdsmen’s crisis on what he called population pressure. This, he said has made it difficult for the pastoralists to gain access to many places they usually accessed unhindered to graze their herds of cattle. Duke who was one of the speakers at the public lecture organized by the Nigeria Movement for Positive Change (NPMC) in Lagos said Nigeria’s population had doubled from 90m in 1979-83 to 200m but the productivity of the nation is not commensurate with the population explosion. According to him, Nigeria was only regarded as the largest economy in Africa by size and not in terms of productivity. He said from a productivity point of view, Nigeria is one of the least productive countries in the African continent. He said “Unfortunately we are still behaving like nothing has changed. Between 1979 and 1983, our population was about 90m but President Shehu Shagari spent an average of $25bn every year. So in four years, he spent $100bn. “The budget being proposed to the National Assembly today is N8.6trillion. But in dollar term, it is $23bn. If you divide 8.6trillion by N360, you will get $23bn.” “If after almost 40 years, what you are spending today is less than what you spent then and your population has more than doubled, then you can understand all the crisis that we are facing today. “The issue of herdsmen’s crisis for instance is a population pressure without the commensurate growth in productivity of the individuals.” He advocated for a systemic restructuring anchored on fair and equitable distribution of the national cake, saying it is high time Nigeria got its leadership right. Duke who is one of the prominent faces in the newly formed Coalition for Nigeria Movement championed by former President Olusegun Obasanjo said the group is in the forefront of sensitizing Nigerians to get involved in governance. President of NMPC, Mr. Niyi Aborisade said the movement which is non-political was to serve as check on the government, saying the way the country is being “is not fair on the citizens”. He said the lecture was a follow-up to the one earlier done in London. “So it is our duty t