Amkar Perm star Brian Idowu has accepted an invitation to join the Nigerian national team for their friendlies against Poland (March 23) and Serbia (March 27). The Saint Petersburg born defender is still classed as a Russian citizen by his club and the Russian Football Union despite making his debut for the Super Eagles last November. Allnigeriasoccer.com understands that Idowu plans to arrive at the Super Eagles Radisson Blu Hotel in Wroclaw on Monday, March 19. The 25-year-old last trained with his Russian Premier League club on Saturday, March 17; the whole of the first-teamers were given the day off on Sunday to rest and recharge their batteries. He scored eight minutes into his debut after coming off the bench at half-time as the Super Eagles came from two goals down to beat Argentina 4-2 in Krasnodar. This season, Idowu has played 22 games in all competitions for Amkar Perm, scoring one goal and logging 1,918 minutes in total. Meanwhile, the Polish national team will hold their first training session at 1830 hours today ahead of their pre-World Cup friendly against Nigeria at the Municipal Stadium in Wrocław. While the Super Eagles players and officials will be accommodated at Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw, Robert Lewandowski and company have been booked in to stay at Monopol hotel in Wrocław. Manager Adam Nawałka informed the invited players that they are obligated to arrive at the hotel before 1800 hours yesterday, and Ludogorets Razgrad midfielder Jacek Góralski was the first player to report to camp. Damian Kądzior, who had hoped for his debut against Nigeria, from Górnik is injured and has left the camp. The Polish National Team will train three times before facing the Super Eagles, with the first two taking place at the old Śląsk Wrocław stadium, Oporowska street. Their training on Wednesday starts at 1100 hours while their final workout will be held at the Municipal Stadium, starting from 1800 hours on Thursday. Poland coach Adam Nawałka will speak to the media today at 1430 hours.