The Season 6 of popular TV series, ‘MTV Shuga Naija; is targeted at youth on issues affecting them such as early marriage, girl-child education and sexual health, the producers have said. Executive Director and Founder, MTV Staying Alive Foundation, Georgia Arnold, stated this in a chat with Daily Trust in Lagos this week. He said, “We are thrilled to be bringing MTV Shuga back to Nigeria. We can’t wait to share the exciting new storylines and important messaging on family planning and sexual health that we’re touching on this season. “We’ll explore more issues that affect young people and highlight the reality faced by many adolescents in their everyday lives, as well as the choices they can make to empower themselves,” she said. Also speaking, the Vice-President of Viacom International Media Networks, Alex Okosi, said Season 6 promises engaging, captivating, suspenseful and twitter-ready moments that home-grown MTV Shuga is renowned for. He said “As we’ve seen tonight, clearly African talents are shinning and making waves around the world. When we started MTV Base, there’s one mission that we have; which is not only to entertain but to edutain. And I think MTV Shuga is a great example of that. “MTV Shuga has an amazing impact on youth culture. It’s not only a drama series that entertains, but I think the storylines are very relatable in a lot of ways. It has in a lot of ways had more amazing impact in changing the behaviours of mostly our young people for the better,” Okosi noted. In her reaction, the Director of Family Health, Federal Ministry of Health, Dr. Adebimpe Adebiyi, said MTV Shuga is known for revolutionizing entertainment “not just for you to have fun but for you to be educated.” She added “Specifically for this MTV Shuga Season 6, there is a message we’re passing out to the teeming youth population in Nigeria about family planning. Nigeria’s population is growing at an unacceptable rate and we need to ensure that our young people are not just procreating but doing it with sense. Don’t produce what you can’t take care of.”