A grand-daughter of the first Prime Minister of Nigeria, late Sir Abubakar Tafawa Balewa, Hajiya Hajara Yakubu Wanka has advised communities in Bauchi State to elect people with integrity who will add value to their lives. She gave the advice in Bauchi when members of Yakanaji community from Toro Local Government paid her a visit over the activities of her foundation  in the area. She said that it is only when people elect people of integrity that dividends of democracy can be provided to them. “So long as we keep electing bad politicians  because of  the little they give to electorates during  campaigns, no development can come to such areas, because such politicians consider politics as investment in business that must be recouped and profit made and not service to the people," she said. Wanka said that she grew up in a household where service to humanity is encouraged and as such “we like helping others especially those in need and the less privileged.” “We were taught from tender age the importance of serving community and so, for me, service to communities especially, those that are less privileged,  is a way of life. "This is one of the reasons why I initiated the Hajara Wanka Foundation as a way of contributing my widow’s mite towards enhancing the quality of lives of our people," she added. The philanthropist thanked the people for the visit urging  them to develop their communities. “There is always power in numbers, what you can achieve collectively as a community is far greater than what you may seek for individually," she added. She promised to always do her best to help others adding that God has a way of rewarding unsolicited service to humanity. Speaking earlier, the leader of the delegation, Mallam Sale Idris Yakanaji said they paid the visit to show their appreciation for what “ Hajara Wanka Foundation” is doing in their community. “We have come here on behalf of our community to express our gratitude and say thank you for what your foundation is doing by way of providing social amenities and creating awareness towards behavioural change that has catapulted our community to become enlightened and demand for service from our representatives," he said. 