Arewa, Oodua and Independent People of Biafra (IPOB) youths have completed their non-violence and peace training in the United State. The one-week training was conducted by a former aide of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Dr. Benard Lafayette and his team of non-violence experts from America It was the culmination of the non-violence training organized by the Foundation for Ethnic Harmony in Nigeria (FEHN) which kicked off in Lagos last year as part of confidence building strategy among ethnic agitators. Founder of FEHN who is also the Chairman/CEO of Air Peace, Mr. Allen Onyema had selected over 50 youths representing different ethnic groups including Fulani youths for the training. According to FEHN, over N300m was expended in the training which has gone a long way in changing the orientation of the trainees and converted them to peace advocates. The Air Peace boss embarked on the peace mission in the wake of the October 1 quit notice Arewa youths issued Igbo living in North. Participants at the end of the US part of the programme held at the Emory Center for Advancing Non-violence, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA commended the organizer for equipping them with the necessary skills to campaign for peace in Nigeria. Leader of Arewa Transformation and Empowerment Initiative (ATEI), Mohammed Danjuma commended Onyema for his “selfless acts of generosity and a magnanimous penchant for peace”. He described their training in the US as a “life-changing experience that left a huge imprint at the conclusion of the programme. It has exposed me to a new way of life, new approaches and principles never known to me before.” Director of Global Independent Pan-African Youth Parliament, Ms. Ifunanya Kanonye pledged to ride on her training to encourage reconciliation in the country, saying: “Attending the Kingian Non-violence Programme was an eye opener for me. The programme has really changed my approach to matters.” Also speaking, Secretary General of Miyetti Allah Kautal Hore Socio-cultural Fulani Association, Mr Saleh Kuba Hassan said Nigeria needed more people like Onyema to change the country. Director of Programmes and Public Affairs of FEHN, Joy Imeli, who led the beneficiaries to the US, however, urged them to make good use of their training. Her organisation, she said, was relying on the beneficiaries to spread the culture of peace and non-violence across Nigeria.