The kano State Football Association has said Nigeria’s representative in this year’s CAF Champions League, Plateau United will be given all the necessary support to beat Etoile Du Sahel of Tunisia on Sunday. Plateau United are billed to host the north Africans in the second leg of the final qualifying round of the CAF club competition at the Sani Abacha stadium in Kano. The new Jos township stadium which is still under construction was not approved by CAF for the high profile match. Speaking to Daily Trust on Saturday, the chairman of Kano Football Association and Executive Committee member of the NFF, Alhaji Sharif Rabiu Inuwa ‘Alhan’ said the people and governemnt of Kano are solidly behind Plateau United. He said all the necessary arrangements have been put in place by the state football association for a hitch-free match. Inuwa reiterated that as the home of football in Nigeria, Kano State FA will ensure that Plateau United do not lack the necessary home support. “The people of Kano State are honoured by the decision of Plateau United to choose us to host this important match. “As an association backed by a sports loving governor, we are doing everything necessary to support Plateau United. “We are in touch with the chairman of Kano Pillars fans club to ensure that the stadium will be filled to capacity for Plateau United. “We have also put in place the necessary security arrangement for safety of lives before, during and after the match,” he assured. Inuwa who was part of the delegation for the first leg in Sousse also expressed confidence that Plateau United will surmount the Etoile du Sahel hurdle. He said from what he saw of the two teams in Tunisia, Plateau United only need to step up their game to qualify for the group stage. “I was part of the delegation for the first leg and can tell you that Plateau United didn’t play too badly. “All they need to do on Sunday is to show more confidence and determination and they will be through to the group stage,” he said.