The government of Kaduna State should pay more attention to the issues of monitoring and supervision in its educational sector reform for both its primary and secondary schools. In my view, the government should humbly consider Douglass McGregor’s theory “X” or any other relevant approach that may ensure strict monitoring and supervision in the educational sector for better results. Theory X encourages the use of tight control and supervision. It argues that since the employee does not want to work, he must be persuaded, compelled, or warned with punishment so as to achieve organizational goals. A close supervision is required on the part of managers, according to the theory. In my observation, as a one-time private school teacher, most of the proprietors of private schools if not all of them, use Douglass McGregor’s theory “X” in managing their employees. Perhaps it is the reason for punctuality, dedication and commitment among its employees. In some private schools, a percentage of one’s salary is deducted due to lateness to work. More so, where the act is often repeated, the employee is shown the way out. In 1960, Douglas McGregor formulated Theory X and Theory Y, suggesting two aspects of human behaviour at work, or in other words, two different views of individuals (employees): one of which is negative, called Theory X and the other is positive, known as Theory Y. Theory “X” and “Y” assumptions are based on the perception of managers on the nature of individuals with various assumptions on each of the character of employees in “X”and “Y”. For Theory “X” the assumptions are: (1) An average employee intrinsically does not like work and tries to escape it whenever possible; (2) Many employees rank job security on top, and they have little or no aspiration/ ambition;(3) Employees generally dislike responsibilities(4) Employees resist change; and (5)An average employee needs formal direction. In my hypothesis, politicisation of the educational sector has made some teachers appear to be more powerful than the Education Secretaries (ES) of their respective local governments (LGs) who are supposed to be their supervisors much less the head teachers. Can the public service, as it were, carry out effective monitoring and supervision as done in private schools? In my view, let’s begin to debate the need or otherwise of out-sourcing the monitoring and supervision team in public schools. We must note that if we continue to have employees who are more powerful than their supervisors or in a situation whereby the supervisors are willing to collect bribe from their supervisees, we are in trouble. Nurudeen Dauda wrote from Kaduna and can be reached at:nurudeendauda24@gmail. com