Government Science Secondary School Kurfi is now a ‘ghost town’. The once buzzing academic environment has disappeared as both students and teachers were sent home following the outbreak of yet-to-be identified disease that has so far killed eight students of the school. The dead were said to have come down with severe fever, vomiting and in less than 24 hours gave up. This prompted authorities to shut down the school indefinitely. During a visit to the school, only the gateman was spotted across the road, mounting vigil on the school’s main entrance. The closure did not go down well with the Katsina State House of Assembly, which prompted the House to open investigation on the matter on the grounds that shutting down the school and sending students home will further escalate the spread of the unknown epidemic. The House has since directed its committees on Education and Health to thoroughly investigate the matter and report back as soon as possible following a motion raised on matter of urgent attention by the lawmaker representing Kurfi constituency in the Assembly, Kabir Lawal. Two other members, Garba Hussaini and Bishir Mamman from Kafur and Dutsin-ma respectively, said similar incidents were recorded in their constituencies as well and needed to be investigated accordingly. Although not confirmed, medical personnel suspected the cause of death to be meningitis. The neighbouring local government of Jibia has recorded over 15 deaths so far since the outbreak of Celebro Spinal Meningitis (CSM). In Dutsinma local council, three students of the Federal University Dutsinma died in similar circumstances. The silence of authorities concerned is aggravating the situation, as answers are not forthcoming on the actual cause of the epidemic. Alhaji Habibu Garba, whose 13-year-old son in JSS1, Abubakar, was among the eight that died, said, “We are being kept in the dark as to what was wrong before the death. I have reached out to the authorities and doctors to know the cause but to no avail.” “I was made to understand that samples from my son were taken at the General Hospital to Federal Medical Centre for analysis. Until now, no one has said anything. I called the hospital four times but no explanation was given,” he said. Garba said death is inevitable and knowing the cause cannot bring back the dead but can help check future occurrences and reduce the already tensed atmosphere and confusion. “Being kept in the dark is worrisome because I have another child in the school. My son took ill overnight; he had severe body temperature and was rushed to the hospital the next day. I was with him as he kept holding his stomach, a doctor examined him and he was placed on IV, some drugs were prescribed which was sent for, but before they could return, my son died in my presence,” he said. “A friend of mine had a child who was also sick and admitted at the hospital. He was said to have been diagnosed with meningitis, he is responding to treatment and may have been discharged by now,” Garba said. “Until now, I don’t know what killed my son. The school principal and some staff came to condole with me. Whatever anyone says about these deaths is mere hearsay.  There should be a thorough investigation on the cause of the death,” he added. Alhaji Garba advised the school authority to tackle the school’s major problems which include insufficient hostel accommodations, toilet facilities and provision of potable water. He said lots of people seek after special schools like the government science schools, which results in high number of students’ intake. A student (names withheld) said they have been in total shock and confusion since the death of their colleagues. “We don’t know the cause of the disease but some of our teachers told us it is meningitis.” “What happened is from God, we have taken it like that but our greatest concern is hostel accommodation. It is grossly inadequate; some classrooms were converted to dormitories and we have over 40 students in a class,” he said. “I’m determined to return to continue with my education but my single request remains better accommodation for the students. Some of our teachers say the cause of the death is meningitis and that it is contagious. That’s why I’m disturbed over our inadequate accommodation. When contacted, officials of the ministry of educations said the official record of death in the school is seven. “Officially, here, we only know of seven deaths but the cause of death is not yet certain. Health personnel have been drafted to uncover the true situation of things. We are yet to know the true position of things as investigations are ongoing,” spokesman Salisu Lawal said. He said the school was shut down to curtail the spread of the yet-to-be identified disease, adding that officials of the World Health Organisation (WHO) and other state health officers have taken samples and are still analysing them to unravel the true cause of death. On the alleged inadequate hostel accommodation, he said, “they are not telling the truth, we have adequate facilities therein for the students and teachers.” On when the school would be reopened, “We expect to reopen the school between first and second week of April, hoping that by then investigations must have been concluded.”