Ruth Dreifuss is the Chair, Global Commission on Drugs and a former President of Switzerland. She recently spoke  with journalists in Abuja on the sidelines of a lecture, “The World Drug Perception Problem: Countering Prejudices about People Who Use Drugs.”  Daily Trust on Sunday was there.  You are remembered mostly for your revolutionary approach to the drug problem in your country. Back in the late 80s and 90s thousands of people would gather at the Needle Park in Zurich to inject heroine; was it scenes like that that inspired you to treat the drug issue as a public health problem rather than a criminal issue? When I became president we had really two negative malaises to face; one was thick in AIDs epidemic and the other one was strong increase in heroine consumption so that one was fuelling the other.  The drug consumption was fuelling the epidemic through needle contamination. And we had those open scenes that were quite shocking but some people came to just buy the stuff and consume and go back and do their jobs. So, not all people in Needle Park were miserable people. Some of them were actually dependent on the heroine, they lived there and did petty criminal things to get the money to do the drugs. Our priority was to bring these people a more balanced life and to offer them services to protect themselves and to protect their environment to regain better lives. At the beginning it was an initiative from Non-Governmental Organisations  (NGOs), an initiative from doctors, people from the faculty of medicine and people from churches who said ‘we have to go and reach out to the people; we cannot just abandon them in this situation.’  So they asked the government to develop measures like safe consumption rooms, that is places where they would come with drugs they have bought at the black market and use them in a safe environment; medical and social professionals being there. Syringes, all the materials they needed to inject without  infection, not only the contamination of AIDs but abscess-drug checking because when you buy a drug on the black market you do not know what is in it. It may be really directly poisonous. So all this misery of the whole society was what made us change the policy. The initiative as I told you earlier came from people who were ready to go inside and know the problems and they told us you cannot continue with abandoning these people and I was lucky enough to be able to convince the whole government that not only we were to act immediately but we had to scale up in order to get in touch with everybody and not to leave anybody behind.  Now that you are the Chair, Global Commission on Drug Policy what steps have you taken to replicate that same success on the global scale? It is a huge programme and it is in different chapters. It will help if we take all these chapters and implement them and construct coherence in drug policy because now it is incoherent, it is inefficient. We have taken some little steps but we have not built real coherent approach. We promote five pathways of drug policy. One is the whole issue of health policy; harm reduction, prevention, all kinds of treatment-substitution treatment and so on. The second is to make painkillers available for people who need them. For many countries in Africa, painkillers are a forbidden drug. They don’t produce the painkillers and they can’t even prescribe the painkillers to those who need them. This is a very important issue and in this sense I would say there was really a growing awareness about the consequences of becoming dependent on morphine which is not really the case if it is prescribed very well for a special situation. The third path is decriminalization of the consumption, and in this sense, I would say Switzerland is a good example, you have no difficulty getting pain relief, it is included in the universal coverage of the health insurance. The doctors have been trained for treatment and harm reduction. Prevention is quite difficult, to prevent young people from experimenting with drugs is quite difficult. Switzerland was so focused on the public health challenge that it neglected the legal aspect. There were no harsh punishments. Generally, young people did not go to jail. There were no harsh punishments as the judge would ask them to do some weeks or days of community service. It was not like in other countries where there are stiffer penalties for little dealers as well. Now, in Switzerland you have just a fine for consumption. The fourth path is to concentrate on the big bosses of the criminal organisations and to find economic alternatives like farming and others. The small people who are non-violent are making a living out of drugs because they do not have other livelihood opportunities. Find new ways of dealing with these people. And the fifth path is don’t leave drugs in the hands of criminal organisations. Take control, you are the state, you are responsible for the health of the people, for the wellbeing of the people. The criminal organisations have only one aim, to control the substances and to make the people dependent on the substances. I can bring on the one side, my experience in the health issue and it is actually convincing because I would say this idea of harm reduction has gained traction in Europe.  Now, like I said before, I am absolutely convinced that punishing somebody for an act that is not harmful to others; it may be harmful to himself, but why should the state interfere in the privacy of the people and tell them what they are allowed to use. I am sure also that the criminalization is the main obstacle to access to harm reduction and treatment.  In Nigeria any person who uses drugs and is caught with just a wrap of cannabis risks 15 to 25 years in jail. Now that you are here, have you interfaced with policy makers to see if drug laws of Nigeria can be repealed? It is our role to advise other countries about better policies and I would say we have a worthy advocate in Nigeria, he is our member, former president Olusegun Obasanjo. There is also another strong advocate from a neighbouring country, former UN Secretary General, Kofi Annan. And when I see what was done in the West African Commission on Drugs (WACD) I see that the idea is developing. This country had for long been considered as a victim of international trafficking but the WACD has shown that the difference between producer country and consumer country is just blurred, it doesn’t really exist at this juncture. Where drugs are controlled by criminal organisations and they are passing through countries or regions, you will have consumption, you will have drug problem in your country and among your population. So we have to understand in this country the link between consumption and the social and economic problems more than to be blind and think that it is only social misfits that take these drugs and when we put them  in jail, they will be isolated. For many years people like that have been pushed against the society because they have been considered to be a threat. This is the philosophy of punishing people. So this perception that drug users are a threat to the whole society is just something that has no reality at all. They are normal people and the majority of them have families and are reasonable and responsible and they should be put in jail because they use substances?  What best approach should Nigeria take in fighting traffickers who bring drugs to the country? I see no relationship between decriminalization of people who use drugs and the fight against criminal organisations. On the one side you have people for one reason or the other who are using substances. Like I said before, this is criminalized in the idea that these people are dangerous,  immoral and that these people are bad. And some law enforcement agencies think that when they arrest the consumers they will stop the trafficking but that is an illusion. So to stop the traffic, you have to do two or three things. You have to secure the borders and to fight money laundering and corruption. The WACD has shown that drug money can influence elections, that drug money can be put in houses here and neighbourhoods can just spring up like mushrooms. So this needs international cooperation to track the money flow and to control the borders. This needs intelligence, this needs infiltrating the criminal organisations to know when the transport is coming. And that needs a government that is resistant to corruption. Now what should be a counter example, it is the example of Latin America.  The countries of Latin America armed the military with heavy weapons to fight the drug cartels and the cartels said okay, you want an escalation so we are also able to buy weapons and we will fight back. And you know the consequence of that is Latin America has the highest rate of homicide in the world. The militarization has caused Mexico more than 100, 000 lives and it is still going on. So what I can wish Africa is don’t go the path of Latin America, don’t militarise, don’t escalate. There is enough work to do to trace the money, to trace the substance, and to fight corruption and money laundering. The amount of seizures of substances have increased, so many tonnes of marijuana and so many kilos of heroine have been seized by law enforcement agencies but when you look at prices they still did not go up. What does that mean? For an economist, it means there is no scarcity, there is enough on the market for the people to buy. So this is not a great success. The success is when you take the drug money that is in safe banks in very quiet and civilized countries.