 On Tuesday, February 27, 2018, the National Chairman of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief John Odigie-Oyegun and members of his National Working Committee (SWC) survived a premeditated political onslaught; and came out of the National Executive Committee (NEC). With their tenure extended, and the chance of being outsted at the party’s convention removed completely, the coast is still far from clear for Oyegun who has several battles ahead of him. For embattled APC chairman, Chief John Odigie-Oyegun Tuesday February 27, 2018, must have seemed like a watershed moment. It was the day he scored an unexpected victory that secured his position as the ruling party chairman and the man to lead the APC into the 2019 elections. With insinuations rife that Oyegun was about to lose his seat, along with members of his National Working Committee, following widespread disaffection among party members, the chief scored a surprising victory at the National Executive Council meeting of the party, where he was ratified as the party chairman going into the convention and beyond. Ordinarily, this should be a relief for Oyegun, but even he knows that this is far from the end of his trials as the APC chairman. The power tussle between a national leader of the APC and political stalwart, Chief Bola Tinubu, largely credited with the success of the party, and Chief Oyegun seemed to have swung the way of Tinubu in recent weeks, with President Muhammadu Buhari appointing the former Lagos State governor to chair the party’s reconciliation Committee. As if Tinubu’s committee was not indictment enough of Oyegun’s failure to unify the party, Tinubu took a swing at Oyegun in a letter accusing the party chairman of undermining his committee’s work. All seemed set for the ouster of Oyegun, and within the party, this was the thinking, until his epic comeback at the NEC meeting last week. The tide swung a day before when the 36 APC chairmen from the states endorsed a tenure extension for Oyegun-led NWC. The slight in this move was crowned with Henry Ajomale, chairman, APC Lagos, Tinubu’s base being the signatory to the communiqué. It is hard to see how this is not the case even if the APC spokesman in Lagos, Joe Igbokwe, denies this claim, insisting that Ajomale remains a loyal supporter of Tinubu. “When Ajomale speaks, it is Tinubu that spoke,” Igbokwe said. Whatever the case, the endorsement left many pundits scratching their heads. And the APC had to come out with different reasons for the decision. Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State, who briefed journalists on the outcome of the NEC session, said the decision to extend Oyegun’s tenure was taken in line with the provisions of Article 13 of the APC Constitution which empowered the NEC to carry out the functions of the convention. “Let me tell you that this will not stop the convention of the party, but to go into elective congresses is what we are trying to avoid relying on the constitution of our party. As a matter of fact, Mr President believes in ensuring that there are congresses and convention across board,” Governor Bello said. “However, how would you manage the crisis that will arise thereafter? Let me give you instances, in Ekiti and Osun states, the state congresses were postponed similarly in 2014 ahead of the elections, just two states, to avoid crisis not to talk more of the whole country. So, that is why this decision was taken,” Bello added. The NEC decision was unanimous with 102 members voting in favour of the tenure extension. Only four members opposed the move. However, Governor Abdulaziz Yari, a close ally of President Buhari, who has been reported to have been pushing for a new chairman for the APC questions the decision. “What has been done is a mere expression of interest. The power of the convention to extend tenure is exercised only by way of constitution amendment. The power of the NEC of our party cannot go beyond doing so by way of constitution amendment. Article 30 of the APC constitution states: The constitution and the schedules hereto can be amended only by the National Convention of the party. “The process of amending the constitution is also expressly provided in Article 30 sub section 2 which states: ‘Notice of any proposed amendment by any member or organ of the party shall be given to the National Secretary at least 14 days before the date of the National Convention. The Notice shall be in writing, shall contain a clear statement of the proposed amendment and reasons for it,” Yari said.  However, Yari’s position has been challenged by some party chieftain such as Osita Okechukwu, the Director-General of Voice of Nigeria (VON). “If you listen to the analysis, they said that few years ago, the APC adopted the same method, especially before we went for Osun and Ekiti elections. Then, we said that we should not put too much in our mouth. We were told then by our elders that if you allowed a small crack in your walls, the ants would want to pass through the crack. Later, it will be lizards and shakes. So, the APC is trying to block our walls,” Okechukwu said. “If anybody is saying that it is a wrong argument, I think it is the person  that is trying to bring division, dissension, and acrimony. But our great leadership has said no. I understand that, His Excellency, Governor Abdulaziz Yari, who went open with it didn’t raise any objection at the meeting. They said it was only about four persons that did that. Governor Rochas Okorocha and few others. That was the report we had. And it had not been contradicted,” he added. With core Buhari loyalist having been angling towards the ouster of Oyegun, what swung the tide in his favour? Money politics. That was what a high ranking source within the party told the Daily Trust on Sunday. President Buhari’s desire to avoid money politics, which could be a possibility with a new party chairman convinced the president to throw his weight behind Oyegun. “The former governor of Edo State, Adams Oshiomhole, is believed to have shown interest in the position. Besides, Governor Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State was said to be lobbying for a chairmanship candidate. So, if we go for convention, who is Buhari’s candidate?” the source said. “Besides, the party will be wary ahead of 2019 general elections as a result of the crises that will arise from fresh Congresses at Ward, Local Government, State levels as well as from national convention,” the source said. With so much opinions and interpretations being bandied about by various people in the APC, perhaps the party should worry about a voice that has not spoken. Chief Bola Tinubu has not said anything yet. For Oyegun especially, this is may just be a continuation of his trial. Oyegun’s trials Apart from appeasing aggrieved party leaders like Tinubu, another trial Oyegun has to confront is that of a party that is becoming increasing fractured. With sources claiming that President Buhari is planning a meeting between TInubu and Oyegun to iron out the issues, Oyegun also needs to keep his house in order with crisis in every state branch of the party leading to factions emerging in key APC states. In Kano, it is a fight between Governor Abdullahi Ganduje and his predecessor, Sen. Rabiu Kwankwaso. Ganduje had recently said Kwankwaso would be replaced as senator by another fellow in 2019. In Kogi State, it is between aggrieved EXCOs of the party who have been at loggerheads with Governor Bello for allegedly side-lining them since he assumed power about two years ago. The governor has created a faction and Oyegun has blessed them. In Bauchi, it is between Governor Mohammed Abubakar and the speaker of the House of Reps, Yakubu Dogara as well as three senators from the state namely, Ali Wakili, Isa Hamma Misau and Nazifi Gamawa. They all accuse the governor of reneging the promises he made to the people during campaigns. The Senator Chris Ngige-led committee could not resolve the problem. In Oyo State, it is between Governor Abiola Ajimobi and the Minister of Communication, Adebayo Shittu. Shitu wants to succeed Ajimobi as governor but clearly, the governor has someone else in mind, as evident in their utterances. In Katsina, Governor Aminu Masari is finding it difficult to contend with threats from the APC splinter group called the APC-Akida comprising people like MT Liman, Sadiq Yar’adua, Sada Ilu, Usman Bugaje, and others. In Kaduna, there is serious revolt against Governor Nasir El-Rufai from the camp of Senator Shehu Sani, and there’s former APC chairman in Kaduna State, Dr Hakeem Baba Ahmed who blamed the governor for dividing the party, culminating in the formation of APC Akida faction in the state. Senator Hunkuyi, whose building was demolished recently in what is seen as a personalisation of the political fight, has also created a different faction. In Zamfara, Senator Kabiru Marafa is at daggers-drawn with Governor Abdul’aziz Yari; while in Imo, Governor Rochas Okorocha has perfected plans to plant his son-in-law as successor. Coupled with this is the fact that the APC has frittered away the incredible goodwill it enjoyed form Nigerians during the 2015 general elections. With the atrociuous performance of elected APC officials in various states leaving many voters disenchanted, the logic of the “Sak” mantra-the ideology of voting in the APC in every election regardless  of who the individual candidates may be  has been called into question and will most likely not repeat itself in future elections. The failure of the party to stimulate public officials who came into office on its platform to perform or even respond to basic needs of the electorate will be put squarely on Oyegun’s feet. The party’s failure to call to order its misbehaving public office holders may come back to bite it in the rear. Oyegun had in December, 2017, addressed opposition to him by saying he was only being attacked because of his “loyalty” even as many pundits have asked if loyalty (to the president only) is enough to keep a ruling party going when majority of members are aggrieved. Speaking in December when he was honoured as Ogbe Eni’ meaning the Elephant killer by the Benin National Congress, Oyegun said,  “I do nothing that will not make me to have sound sleep, I do nothing that I will be afraid to see on the headline of any of the national dailies. Yes I have been put to several trials and I have overcome them all,” But perhaps the APC chairman needs to do a little more than that. Now that a showdown has been avoided at the national convention by this move, other pitfalls maybe in how the party conducts party congresses in the states and how Oyegun is able to unify the party before then and how he is able to deal with the fallout after that. And there is still the fallout from this tenure extension for the Oyegun-led NWC. Already the APC has lost some stalwarts who were instrumental to its 2015 successes. Others have felt sidelined and have been keeping watch from a distance. Could the party, under Oyegun afford to lose more?