The Dangote Business School in Bayero University, Kano, has been commissioned to serve as an incubation centre for entrepreneurship and entrepreneurial development in the country. The building complex, which comprises lecture theatres, libraries, offices and cafeterias among others, was unveiled by the Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II. The project, Daily Trust on Sunday gathered was in fulfilment  of a promise the business tycoon made at a convocation ceremony of the institution some years ago. Speaking yesterday at commissioning of the project, Alhaji Aliko Dangote expressed satisfaction with the way the project was executed and urged staff and students of the institution to reciprocate the gesture by contributing to the economic integration of the country through quality training and research on best ways of doing business in Africa. He identified quality education as panacea for vibrant economic development, emphasizing the need for the school to be a reference point in grooming world class entrepreneurs. ‘’My interest for supporting higher education in Nigeria stems from the belief that we can and we should  provide the same quality of education here in Nigeria like anywhere else in the world. Good quality education is fundamental in breeding a vibrant economy and society. ‘’My goal for this business school is for it to become a reference point when it comes to learning how to do business successfully in Nigeria and in Africa. This means that this business school should carry out studies and researches that are specific to our needs and ways of doing business which would allow more information to be shared globally on how Africans can do business. ‘’I believe that this business school can and should foster relationship with other business schools across Africa and the globe and I am sure they already have affiliation with three other universities. ‘’This business school will be training and preparing future African leaders in business, who will understand how to develop, and also train others to become visionary businessmen. I also see this business school playing a role in accelerating the economic integration of our continent,’’ Dangote said. The Emir of Kano, Muhammadu Sanusi II, called on the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) to complete the ‘centre of excellence project’ it started in the BUK, saying the project if completed would complement DBS in achieving its set objectives. The Dangote Business School was established in 2015, conducting programmes at a temporary location in the new campus. It was gathered that the school which offers post graduate programmes, was constructed at the cost of N1.2 billion.