The sack of Paul Boroh as head of the Presidential Amnesty Programme is causing disaffection in the Niger Delta.  Recently, President Muhammadu Buhari removed the former Special Adviser on Niger Delta and Coordinator, Presidential Amnesty Programme, Brigadier-General Paul Tarelah Boroh (rtd) from Bayelsa State and appointed Professor Charles Dokubo from Rivers State as a replacement. This came after several months of protests either in support or against the former presidential aide by the ex-militants and the stakeholders. Consequently, barely a week after the sack of Boroh, several militant groups including Niger Delta Avengers rose in protest against the sack, while others have described the president’s action as a welcomed development. When Boroh held sway as the coordinator of the amnesty programme, there were some accusations that the stipends meant for the ex-militants were not regularly paid, a situation that led to protests, calling for his sack on February this year, both in Bayelsa and Delta states. However, after his sack, some militant groups early this week also vowed to resume attack on pipelines and other oil installations in the Niger Delta, if the President does not reverse the sack. The situation even became more complex when operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) and the office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) arrested and search the house of the former presidential aide in Abuja and claimed to have discovered the of $9 million, though the family  sources refuted the claim. Speaking with Daily Trust in Yenagoa, Bayelsa State about the sack and the threat by a faction of ex-militants, Chairman of an advocacy group, Environmental Rights Action/Friends of the Earth, Nigeria, Mr Morris Alogoa, said the office was not the birthright anyone, just like others who served in that position before him, he had done his best and should leave honourably instead of group creating problems where there was none. Alogoa, an advocate for better environment for Niger Delta said, “Gen. Paul Boroh was not the first to occupy that position, as Special Adviser to the President on Niger Delta and Head of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, Timi Alaibe was the first, followed by Hon. Kingsley Kuku and, when their time came, they left. I am not aware if the Niger Delta ex-agitators were consulted by the President before the appointment of any of those who have occupied that position before. “I am not sure if even ex-president Goodluck Jonathan consulted them before either removing Timi Alaibe or getting Hon. Kingsley Kuku to occupy the position. It is also instructive to note that the position is not for any particular state to dominate. Timi Alabi was from Bayelsa and his successor was from Ondo State, before it came back to Paul Boroh, who is from Bayelsa State. So Bayelsa has even been fortunate to occupy the position twice and still remains in the Niger Delta,” he noted. He said “Just like the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), this is a Niger Delta thing except otherwise stated; there shouldn’t be any need making trouble over the appointment of another brother. We are all aware that in the case of the NDDC, there is a constitutional provision for rotation of certain positions among the states covered by the interventionist agency. What they should agitate for is better welfare programmes for the ex-militants and the region.” According to him, while Boroh held the position, Bayelsa State indigenes under the programme were not given special treatment, hence, the called for his removal wouldn’t have emanated from the state. “So while Prof. Dokubo settles in his new assignment, I do not think Bayelsa State will lose anything,  especially as the programmes are designed for the state are not negatively altered and he takes all the ex-agitators as his primary constituency; treating them equally. The only way forward is to ensure that while the amnesty programme is doing its best in pursuit of the mandate of the office, government should try and work towards addressing developmental challenges effectively. The 13 per cent derivation should be felt in the rural communities; especially the oil producing communities,” he stated. Also speaking on the security concerns of the threats by the ex-militants, the commander of Vigilante Group of Nigeria (VGN), Mr Tolumobofa Akpoebibo Jonathan said “Boroh coming back or not is not the issue, because even if he does and the right thing is not done, the militant will still strike, and it will pose a security threat to the state. So the only thing for the new person coming is to do the right thing and ensure that the purpose of the programme is truly implemented to ensure peace in the Niger Delta region.” He also called on the federal government to ensure prompt payment of their stipends, unlike during Boroh’s era when they protest against delayed payment, calling on government not to give the ex-militants any room or reason to return to the creeks, so as to ensure continued peace and security of the state and the region. Also, The Niger Delta Youths Movement (NDYM) disassociated itself from the threat to resume attack on the region issued by one Ebitare Pere on behalf of the Niger Delta Avengers, until Boroh is reinstated as a coordinator of Presidential Amnesty Programme. The NYDM in a statement by its National President, Mr Joe Jackson, said that the person who issued the threat statement was not known as a spokesman of the body at any level. He announced the groups’ resolved and indeed all Niger Delta Youths to embrace the appointment of Professor Dokubo as the new Special Adviser and Coordinator of the Presidential Amnesty Programme, advising him to be a Pan-Niger Delta in the discharge of his duties and learn from the past mistakes of his predecessors. Also, Ijaw elders have caution ex-militants against any action that will breach peace in the region as a result of Boroh’s removal, having in mind that he was replaced by another Ijaw son. The co-coordinator of Ijaw Monitoring Group, Mr Joseph Evah, on behalf of the group and Ijaw elders, also warned the youths over the ultimatum given to the Federal Government to recall Boroh back to his position. While regretting that such action could lead to breach of peace, Evah said “The threat will lead to the military mobilising against our villages and our women and children will suffer, so youths as a matter of necessity should withdraw their threats and maintain peace in the region.”