The Chairman, Committee on Works and Housing, Kano State House of Assembly, Alhaji Ibrahim Gama, says the ongoing construction of Kofar Ruwa underpass in Dala Local Government Area has reached 80 per cent completion. Gama, a member APC representing Nasarawa constituency, said this on Monday while inspecting some of the ongoing projects embarked on by Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje in Dala and Kumbotso Local Government Areas. According to him, the state government has settled the contractor about 72 per cent of payment, adding that the remaining would be completed once he presents his payment certificate for verification. He said the contract which is in two phases was awarded in October 2016 with March 2018 being completion dateline. The chairman, however, noted that the installation of water pipelines by the water board and the wiring of Street light was being delayed. Gama explained that the state government had awarded the contract for the installation of the pipes and the electrical wiring, adding that the assembly would ensure the speedy completion of the project. The committee also inspected the completed Madobi Pan-Shekara underpass in Kumbotso Local Government Area where the chairman commended the contractor for ensuring speedy completion of the project. According to the chairman, the project is awarded at the cost of over N1.3 billion while the state government has so far settled 99 per cent of the payment. While assuring the contractor that the remaining one per cent would be paid soon, Gama called on residents around the two under pass to avoid dumping refuse around the projects. He called on the state government to set up a committee, through the State’s Environmental Agency, to monitor the areas and ensure that no refuse dumped, especially during the rainy season. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that the House committee had also inspected the ongoing construction of a 6.4 km road in Pan-Shekara. The legislator said so far the project had reached 60 per cent with the completion of 4kms, adding that the delay for the remaining kilometers was due to challenges of compensation. He called on the state government to ensure the payment of the compensation to enable the contractor complete the work before the rainy season. (NAN)