Comptroller General, Nigerian Immigration Services (NIS), Alhaji Mohammed Babandede has reiterated his commitment to source for the ordnance needs of the Service from the Defence Industries Corporation of Nigeria (DICON). Speaking when the corporation led by its Director General, Major General Bamidele Ogunkale paid a visit to the NIS headquarters, Abuja where it delivered the newly produced 100 ballistic vests to the Service, the immigration boss stressed that no local industry can grow if those in position do not patronize them by making deliberate preference for their products. He said, "DICON is our own industry and will therefore do all within our reach to prioritize doing business with the corporation." The Comptroller General encouraged DICON to improve on its Fabrique Nationale Light Assault Rifle model earlier supplied to the Services. He further advised the DG to impress it on his management staff to consult copiously with their customers by carrying them along from the designing stage saying, it will add more value to the corporation’s service delivery to its customers. He called on other security agencies to improve on the current level of patronage for DICON’s products while also calling on DICON to veer into the production of accoutrements adding that, "The NIS will be ever ready in giving first priority to DICON’s products." Earlier, the DG DICON, Maj Gen Bamidele Ogunkale noted that the corporation is collaborating extensively with both foreign and indigenous companies to meet the ever increasing needs of the Armed Forces and other Security Agencies. He further disclosed that the corporation has signed various MOUs with these organizations adding that the collaborations will ultimately drive   the establishment of the proposed Military Industrial Complex (MIC) for the nation. He added, "Some of the foreign companies with which we have technical collaborations with include; Ballistic Body Armour (BBA) from South Africa, Sur International Limited, Liquid Bullet and Casablanca Industrial Companyamongst amongst others." On the supplied ballistic vests, the DG staid, "The armoured plateswere of level III, 0.26 inches thick ceramic material with 20 years shelflife which has the capability of stopping 7.62x51mm and 7.62x39 mmammunition at a distance of 15 meters. The colour wascarefully chosen to blend with the unique colour of the Service." He commended the Comptroller General for his patriotism and unflinching effort to patronize DICON in line with the local content policy thrust of the present administration of PresidentMuhammadu Buhari.