The Commissioner for Women and Children Affairs in Osun State, Alhaja Latifat Abiodun Giwa has said that some commissioners seeking special favour hypnotised Governor Rauf Aregbesola in his first term. She said this in Osogbo, capital of Osun State at a colloquium, organised by a socio-religious group, Muslim Political Awareness Front (MUPAF) with the theme 'Muslim Ummah, Partisan Politics and Voters' Education'. The state Commissioner for Education, Mr Omotunde Young who represented the governor apologized on behalf of Aregesola for his inability to attend the colloquium in person. The Coordinator of MUPAF, Malam Lukman Obenbe told the gathering that the mission of the group was to create political awareness among Muslims, sensitize them on the leadership matters and engage political office holders when necessary. Giwa who was the Chairperson at the event said the governor has done his best for Osun and that he should not be blamed for whatever is considered to be his wrong decision. She said that it was the fault of aides who misled him, particularly those that charmed him in order to gain his attention and get special favour. According to her, "Don't blame the governor, it is the aides. We, the aides must be blamed. Most aides have become cabals. They hypnotised the governor in his first term. They even made Aregbesola's statue and they command the governor through that statue. The governor would not know and he would follow the directive as directed through his statue." "One day, someone wanted to see the governor and he ran to the toilet first. When he came out from the toilet, the security men stopped him and when they searched him, they found charms and he was sent back. Yet, people would be blaming the governor if he acted in a particular way without knowing that he (Aregbesola) was hypnotised." The Guest Speaker at the colloquium, Professor Abdul-Hafeez Oladosu of the Department of Arabic and Islamic Studies, University of Ibadan said there was need for Muslims to participate in process of electing leaders and urged them to ensure that they get their permanent voters card. The colloquium was attended by former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs in the state, Professor Muib Opeloye of the Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife, the Permanent Secretary of Osun State Universal Basic Education Board and other top personalities in the state including prominent Imams and Alfas and various Muslim organizations.