Juventus returned to the top of Serie A by a point thanks to their 2-0 home victory against Udinese.

Following their dramatic Wembley comeback against Tottenham in the Champions League, spirits were high and Paulo Dybala opened the scoring by fizzing a free-kick into the top corner in the 20th minute.

Gonzalo Higuain missed a 38th-minute penalty that had been won by Dybala but the latter cheered up his fellow Argentinian by sweeping in his assist for a second goal shortly after the break.

Napoli played out a 0-0 draw at Inter in a game both teams could have won - with the visitors missing out on a chance to re-take top spot in the division, having played later in the day than Juve.

Three points from their evening trip to Milan would have restored Napoli's status as front-runners for the Scudetto, which they have not won since 1990, but Inter held firm to force a goalless draw.

Napoli could even find themselves four points adrift of Juve should the Bianconeri make the most of their game in hand against Atalanta, which takes place in Turin on Wednesday night.

Fiorentina paid emotional tributes to their captain Davide Astori before and during their 1-0 Serie A win over Benevento at Stadio Artemio Franchi.

The Florence club were playing their first game since Astori died suddenly in his sleep at the team hotel last week.

Fans unveiled banners in Astori's honour and players warmed up in shirts bearing his name and number, while the match was halted in the 13th minute for a sustained round of applause.

Vitor Hugo headed the only goal of the game in the 25th minute and celebrated by hugging coach Stefano Pioli before raising a shirt picturing Astori to the crowd.

Lazio suffered a setback in their bid to gatecrash the top three despite Ciro Immobile pouncing in stoppage time to salvage a point from a 2-2 draw at Cagliari.

There was a surprise twist in the battle to avoid the drop as lowly Crotone thumped high-flying Sampdoria 4-1 with Marcello Trotta scoring twice.

Sassuolo and SPAL both remain in the relegation mire after contesting a 1-1 draw in Reggio Emilia.