Reviving the Nigerian economy was one of the three major campaign promises by President  Muhammadu Buhari for the 2015 general election. But since he assumed office, the economy is one area that his government found tricky. The country plunged into recession in his first year while the issues of fuel scarcity, forex scarcity, devaluation of the naira with higher inflation crippled the economic fortunes of many families in the last two years. Here, we take a look at some of the critical economic issues that needs to be addressed before the 2019 general elections. 1.  Fuel scarcity & subsidy controversy One of the major economic hiccups of the Buhari administration is the recurrence of fuel scarcity and the controversial subsidy on petrol that is accumulating slowing but steadily due to the increase in international prices of crude oil. In the last two and half years, the regime witnessed about four cycles of fuel scarcity.  Buhari inherited the first fuel scarcity from the Goodluck administration around March 2015 which proceeded till after the inauguration and ended in June. The second cycle was during the yuletide period in 2015, the third was in April 2016 due to acute shortage of foreign exchange and the fourth is the current one which started in November last year. While some analysts believe that the recent scarcity is due to the increase in crude oil prices at the international market, others blame poor plans for local refining to address the issues by his administration. 2. Poor electricity Gas generation issues, lack of transmission capacity and distribution hiccups within the last two years of the administration have cast doubts among the electorate on his ability to address the electricity problem in the country. The nation witnessed some of the worst electricity blackouts in history in the last two years, mainly due to the vandalism of gas pipelines and low level water for hydro generating plants. Now that the Niger Delta militants have dropped their weapons, the generation and transmission of electricity is not a major concern. Statistics from the authorities indicate that power generation is in the region of about 5,000 megawatts (mw) while transmission capacity is 7,000 mw. However, the bulk of the problem of the sector is in the distribution sector where the power generated does not reach the final users due to the inability of the distribution companies to wheel it to consumers. The 11 electricity distribution companies (Discos) added only 4.5% (about 151,724 meters) out of about 3.356million unmetered customers since they took over operations in 2013, according to a report by the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC). 3.  Dwindling insecurity & infrastructure Despite numerous interventions in road and rail infrastructure since he assumed office, Buhari needs to do more than what is happening at the moment to assist the productive sector to grow. Many manufacturers are still grappling with infrastructure challenges such as supply of water, electricity, feeder roads as well as multiple taxation, delay in agricultural inputs supply and insecurity. Even the many investors that engage in farming and solid minerals find things very difficult due to insecurity and some of them cannot evacuate their harvests due to poor feeder roads. Presently, due to the failure of government to revive and mop up the excess grains and store them at strategic reserves, many farmers are selling out grains and vegetables cheaper and may end up much poorer before the election period. It is important for President Buhari to close all the gaps, connect the major farmers enclaves to markets, ensure quick supply of inputs and mop up the excess grains at the right price. 4. Unemployment & poverty Majority of President Buhari’s policies on unemployment and poverty reduction are elite-based. Programmes like N-Power, You Win and other social intervention programmes are not meant for millions of street youths who are mostly illiterates and informal. These set of people contributed a lot to bring his regime to power. However, a lot of them have not only remained unemployed but suffer more hardships due to the recession of 2016. Many of these young people, especially in the urban areas, have given up on the administration’s effort to save them from the economic woes. The government needs to invest more in skills acquisition projects across the country in order to reduce the number of youths on the streets. The increasing number of Internally Displaced People is alarming, previously it was the Northeast region produced a large number of such people but now, the Northwest, specifically Zamfara and Kaduna and the North Central region all have large numbers of IDPs due to farmers/herders clashes, cattle rustling  and other criminal activities. The earlier the Buhari administration intervened, the better chances for him to get the support of these people for re-election. 5. Inflation and devaluation of the naira Although inflation dropped constantly in the last 12 months, the rate at which it dropped is very slow. Many lower and middle class citizens are complaining of dwindling income due to inflation since Buhari assumed power.  Inflation doubled from 9.5% in December 2015 to 18.5% in December 2016, driven by higher energy and food prices and depreciation of the naira. The culmination of all these factors worsen the economic status of many Nigerians and that is the least many families can forget at election time. Now that the government is able to stabilise the foreign exchange market, the next task is to increase the capacity of local manufacturers to produce substitute goods that are imported. That could help reduce prices. Some experts also advocate easing the monetary policy by the Central Bank of Nigeria in order to bring lower rates to stimulate growth in the economy. Lower rates lead consumers to borrow more, also effectively increasing the money supply. Analysts also argue that the naira is undervalued at the moment since the external reserves soared to $41billion and many farmers and manufacturers are expected to bring more foreign exchange into the country. 6.  Outstanding salaries, wage review and contractors’ backlogs In his two and half years in office, President Buhari has made considerable effort to pay salaries of federal government workers as at when due. He also substantially reduced the backlog of contractors’ payment on past projects that were executed. However, a lot of workers in the states that constitute major voting block have been suffering as a result of unpaid salaries running for several months. His initiative of paying the Paris Club refunds to states in order to settle outstanding salaries and pensions has not brought about much progress. It is therefore important for the president to work out another modality to make sure that state governors meet their obligations to their workers and pensioners before the election. 7.  Consolidate economic growth Between 2011 and 2015, Nigeria’s economy grew steadily, achieving an average annual growth of 4.8%. However, in the first quarter of 2016, the economy went into recession. The country came out of recession in the second quarter of last year. The recession was the first in almost 18 years and many Nigerians had never suffered such dwindling economic fortunes for a very long period. As a matter of fact, many businesses and families are still trying to recover from the effects of the recession. The government came out with the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan which set a Gross Domestic Product (GDP) growth target of 4.62%  average annually between 2017 to 2020 from the estimated negative growth of -1.54% recorded in 2016. The ERGP projected that the GDP would grow at 2.19% in 2017 and 4.8% in 2018 before peaking at 7.0% in 2020. The 2017 projection has failed as the recently released report from the National Bureau of Statistics indicated that the country’s GDP grew only by 0.83% in 2017. This means that the government needs to do more to attain the target of 4.8% as projected in the ERGP before the election.