For many years, the deplorable state of the Tamburawa Bridge, one of the many bridges along the Kano-Kaduna Expressway, had been a source of worry and apprehension for those who ply the road as well as the host community. Sand excavation activities around the base of the bridge, built in 1986, had taken its toll on the bridge, leading to near collapse. Years back, a lot of concerns were raised by motorists and community members, and the attention of various stakeholders were also drawn to the danger the collapse of the bridge poses to the lives and property of millions of people who ply the Kano-Kaduna route. Government’s attention was also drawn to the structural damage done to the bridge, which led to the subsequent banning of excavation activities it. Malam Ussaini Musa, a resident of Tamburawa community, said they found the damage done to the bridge very disturbing, and the community members had no option than to continue raising alarm. He is happy that succor has come at last. “As community members who were benefiting more than anybody else from this bridge, the structural dilapidation had been a source of worry to all of us but we couldn’t do anything because the work required is far above our capability. We have been raising alarm for quite a long period and to God be the glory this present administration has come to our rescue,” narrated Malam Ussaini. Before the commencement of the repair works by the Federal Ministry of Power Works and Housing, the bridge has degenerated to a shaky condition. A motorist who plies the route on a daily basis, Mr. Tanko Jinta, said he had not noticed any form of problem with the bridge until he saw the construction workers handling the repairs. “I never knew the bridge is as damaged as it is until I saw the construction workers under the bridge, which prompted me to go and have a look. To be honest with you, I was shocked on the danger we have been exposed to over the years. However, I am happy that the repair has commenced and is near completion. I used to believe that President Buhari had neglected the North but seeing this repair work and the one from Kano to Zaria made me withdraw my statement. What Buhari need is our prayers, that is all,” said Mr. Jinta. The Kano Controller Federal Ministry of Power Works and Housing, Engineer Umar Shehu Dange, revealed that the federal government decided to commence repair works on the bridge when the seriousness of damage done to the bridge by sand excavators was brought to its attention. He added that the ministry had secured an approval for emergency repairs by the Federal Executive Council due to the importance of the bridge and the risks involved should it collapse. “The government had taken prompt action by approving N1.89 billion for the repairs and a greater percentage of the repairs have been done. By May, the repairs will be concluded,” said Engineer Umar. However, the Director Federal Highway North-West at the Federal Ministry of Power Works and Housing, Engineer Busari Sikirulla Olalekan, who led an inspection team to inspect various federal government ongoing projects in Kano, expressed satisfaction on the quality of work being done. “There are various federal government projects being carried out in Kano State by the federal government. We have gone to inspect the emergency repairs of Kano to Zaria road, the Tamburawa Bridge, Kano to Wudil road dualisation, the Western by-pass Kilometre 8 Bridge neglected for over 10 years, Inna Kurum Bridge, Kano to Katsina road dualization and the federal government housing program at Jaba. All these are projects being executed by the federal government in Kano State. We have told the contractors handling these projects that funding is not the problem, what we want is qualitative work and adherence to timely completion,” said Engineer Busari.