Nigeria and Tunisia, on Tuesday, signed six Memoranda of Understanding (MOUs) to intensify bilateral engagements, in political, defence and security, social and economic fields as well as consular relations. The agreements were signed by Foreign Affairs Ministers of Nigeria and Tunisia, Geoffrey Onyeama, and Mr. Khemaies Jhinaoui respectively, at the end of fifth session of Joint Ministerial Commission (JMC) in Abuja. The last joint ministerial session was held in 2009. The agreements are consumer protection, social affairs, cultural cooperation and exchanges, energy, youth development and trade cooperation. According to a communiqué issued at the end of the session, the two countries re-committed to renew their partnership and strengthen the long-standing political and socio-economic relations and cooperation. The JMC agreed that both countries would continue to pursue beneficial relations in other areas such as maritime transport, air services, tourism, vocational training and employment, conformity in standards of products. Other areas included technical cooperation, handicrafts, industrialization and trade, capacity building, diplomatic training, defence, education and cultural exchanges health, investment promotion, science and technology, information, communication and media and political consultations. “The Joint Ministerial Commission took cognisance of the importance of knowledge sharing and experiences as a condition of promoting vibrant economic relations driven by mutual trade interests and investment exchanges through stronger private sector engagements. “The Session highlighted the advantages of promoting people-to-people and business contacts as a joint strategy to accelerate inclusive growth and sustainable development in their respective countries. “The two countries pledged to encourage and support the full functioning of the bilateral Chambers of Commerce and mutual participation in trade fairs and exhibitions,” the communiqué said. It added that the two ministers pledged the continued commitment of their countries to the fight against terrorism, violent extremism and promotion of conflict prevention and resolution on the African continent. The sixth session of the JMC is scheduled to hold in Tunisia within the first half of 2019.