A new law by the Lagos State government on the promotion and preservation of the Yoruba language is compelling all students, from primary to secondary school, to study Yoruba. The law mandates all students irrespective of their tribe to study Yoruba in General Studies (GNS) courses in all state-owned tertiary institutions. In addition, having a credit in Yoruba will now be a prerequisite for admission into any state-owned university, polytechnic, monotechnic or college of education. Non-Yoruba speaking students are therefore suddenly left with either to take Yoruba language as a compulsory subject or stop attending any school in the state. The Yoruba Language Preservation and Promotion Law 2018 requires both public and private schools in the state to comply. While some schools have started implementing it in their curriculum for all the students, others are yet to do so, even as Daily Trust discovered that some schools do not even have Yoruba in their curriculum. At the government owned Ikeja Senior Grammar School, Yoruba wasn’t compulsory for all students. Rather, only Arts students were compelled to study the language. It was the same situation at the Comprehensive Grammar School, Oshodi. Ganiyat Hamza and Qudrah Adelakun, both students, said Yoruba wasn’t compulsory for all senior students in their schools. Hamzat, a Commercial class student at Ikeja Senior Grammar School, said Yoruba was an optional course, irrespective of tribe of the student. Adelakun, a Science student of Comprehensive Grammar School, said Science students were not compelled to study Yoruba language. “What does a Science student need Yoruba for? As far as we can pass our basic courses, which are Physics, Chemistry, Mathematics and some other ones, we are good to go. We don’t need Yoruba,” Adelakun said. Kenneth Nwosu, a student of LDS School, a private school in Osundeyi, Oshodi area of the state, said Yoruba has been made compulsory for all students irrespective of tribe Nwosu accepted he had no choice than to attend Yoruba classes. At the Oshodi Junior High School, all students are mandated to take Yoruba as a course. The state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Kehinde Bamigbetan, said  anyone seeking admission into the Lagos State University, Lagos State Polytechnic, Michael Otedola College of Primary Education, Adeniran Ogunsanya College of Education, Lagos State School of Nursing and Lagos State College of Health Technology, among others, must have credit in Yoruba language. The acting chairman of the Lagos State House committee on Home Affairs, Olayiwola Olawale, told our correspondent that the House of Assembly Bill 40 of 2017 signed into law early 2018 by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, was designed to preserve and promote the Yoruba language. “There has been an erosion of indigenous languages in Nigeria, such that if care is not taken, there will be a total extinction of Hausa, Yoruba and Igbo languages,” he said. “There is nothing bad if students, whether Yoruba or non-Yoruba, know some things about the language. It will be to their advantage in the future. As we speak, there are so many non-Yorubas that can conveniently speak the Yoruba language. Some even speak it more fluently than the owners of the language,” he said. All Yoruba teachers that have been hitherto out of job, the legislator added, would have the opportunity to be employed by government and private schools. Contrary to complaints from different quarters about the enforcement, Olawale, who represents the Mushin Constituency 2 in the Lagos House, said, “The law is not about discrimination, rather it’s about promoting the Yoruba language. And this is a clarion call to other tribes to wake up from their slumber to promote their own languages too. Lagos has set the pace, other states can do the same.” He said it had always been in the national education policy that all students must study one Nigerian language. The law warns that any school in Lagos State that fails to comply commits an offence and is liable on first violation to issuance of warning, and on subsequent violation closure and a fine of N500,000. Olawale said if the law had not stipulated sanctions, there would be no compliance. Revealing future plans for the Yoruba language, he said, “In future, we are aiming at having Mathematics and many other subjects translated to Yoruba to enable our students understand the language deeply.” In the same vein, the acting Chairman, House committee on Education, Olanrewaju Ogunyemi, stressed that the National Policy on Education encourages every child to learn a language of his/her environment. “That of the Lagos environment is Yoruba. As cosmopolitan as Lagos could be, it still is a Yoruba state. In Northern Nigeria, they teach students their languages and speak it to them. I once lived in the North and I now know how to speak Hausa, which is good for me,” he said. Teachers in the state seem to be in tandem with the state government on the step. “It is a law by the state government and any school that operates in the state must cooperate with the government or move its operations to another state,” said Comrade Ademola Adeboye, the state deputy chairman of the Nigeria Union of Teachers. Adeboye believes that learning Yoruba would be good for students. Armed with the conviction that many students in Lagos cannot speak the language properly, he insisted on the idea of making Yoruba compulsory for students in both primary and secondary public and private schools. “Whoever can learn Yoruba can easily learn English because of the similarities in their vowels. I know of a school where Igbo students scored A in Yoruba language due to the passion they had for the language,” he said. A former South-west chairman of the Parent-Teachers Association (PTA), Deacon Olusola Adams, opined that learning other languages beside one’s language is an added advantage for Hausa and Igbo students. Citing China, India and Japan as examples, Adams said speaking the indigenous language of the people should be encouraged in all ramifications. “Yoruba may not be our common language like those countries, but we have to start from somewhere. Knowing other languages aside our mother tongue is an added advantage.  If I can speak Hausa, they will love me. Whenever I want to bargain for something, they will reduce the price for me just for the mere fact that I understand their language. The same thing goes for Yoruba and Igbo,” he said. The Chairman of the Muslim Teachers Association, Ikeja, Mr Fatai Oladejo, however, believes that the Lagos State government couldn’t have meant it was compelling all students in schools in the state to study Yoruba language. To Oladejo, it can only be made compulsory only in schools dominated by Yoruba people. “In a school where they have Igbos and Hausa, it may not be compulsory. There are many schools in Lagos where there are only Yoruba students. In that case, it is compulsory. If it is in a mixed school, others can go for other languages,” he said. He however does not regard a law that compels the studying of a language as bad. “To me, making Yoruba compulsory is okay. Living among a people and not understanding the language they speak is not good. In my former school, Igbo boys were leading in the Yoruba language class. They scored the highest. They learned fast,” Oladejo said. But there are fears in some quarters that the Lagos State government might be seeking a way to ease out non-indigenes of the state from having educational advantages and benefits. A banker and founder of the ANAP Foundation, Atedo Peterside, said in a mail on Monday February 19, 2018 to a body he called the Nigeria Collective, that the move could be an initiative towards subtle discrimination. Also, the Lagos State chapter of the People’s Democratic Party has kicked against the law, and called for its suspension.  In a statement by its Publicity Secretary, Mr Taofik Gani, the party described the law as “an early misapplication and revenue coloration in bad faith.” The statement added, “To us in the PDP and a lot of other groups, the law is ethnocentric and a direct attack on all non-Yoruba residents in the state. It has also usurped the inherent powers of the Senate in the various institutions to determine their qualifications for entry. Imagine an Igbo or Hausa with nine distinctions but a pass in Yoruba language.  Such will be denied admission into our schools. Whereas by the combined provisions of Sections: 17(2c) (3a) and 18 (1) of the 1999 Constitution of the FRN (as amended), all citizens should have equal right and fair opportunities to education in any part of the country.”