 The Presidency has challenged individual leaders of the People's Democratic Party to publicly and voluntarily tell Nigerians "how much they stole". It  said they should also agree to cough up their illegal acquisitions of  wealth if they want their apology to be taken seriously by Nigerians. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on Media and Publicity, Malam Garba Shehu, said this in a statement on Friday. He said advised Nigerians to be cautious of the "less-than-honest apology" offered by the PDP's national chairman, Mr. Uche Secondus. Shehu  said the point made by the Minister of Information, Alhaji Lai  Mohammed, was apt and on cue that there are heavy moral duties that go  with apologies if the culprits want to be taken seriously. According  to Shehu, the PDP is desperate to recapture power "because it no longer  has unhindered access to national resources for private uses and its  apology should be seen in this context. "The  PDP has not even acknowledged the fact that it plundered the national  economy, and for a party that dismissed the anti-corruption war as a  political witch hunt, it is impossible to believe that its public  apology comes from the bottom of the heart. "Even  desperate thieves apologize because they are caught and not because  they are incapable of repeating the crime if they had another  opportunity."  He  said the PDP should apologize for the imposition of candidates and the  culture of impunity as well as come clean and acknowledge that it  participated in large scale corruption and massive diversions of public  funds to private pockets while poverty was ravaging the ordinary  Nigerians." He  stated: "Apology borne by desperation to recapture power without a  desire to admit how much they stole and the reluctance to return the  loot is morally hollow. This goes beyond rebranding. Nigerians are not  interested in brands. They want their money back. "For  such apology to gain acceptance, the offenders must first of all show  remorse; then return that which was unlawfully taken or restore the  damage caused the nation; and commit to never doing the wrong they did  again. The PDP has done none of these for them to be taken seriously by  anyone. "Instead  of addressing this cogent issue raised by the Minister, the PDP veered  off to accuse this administration of borrowing money but failed, in that  regard to admit that they borrowed to steal while Buhari administration  is borrowing to set up long-delayed infrastructure. "They  accused the President of unevenness, of inflaming ethnic and religious  tensions, when it is on record that they gave this country its divisive  president who chose the hallowed premises of places of worship to read  important national statements. "President  Buhari never fails in his duty as the Chief Security Officer of the  nation. He acts fast whenever and wherever there are incidents by  ordering law-enforcement agencies to do their job and fact-finding  mission to give him actionable reports. "PDP’s  uncaring attitude to these matters, including the kidnapping of 270  girls from Chibok is the hallmark of the long years of misrule. "Another  issue of moral and political significance is about the recent  disclosure by US investigators that the PDP government engaged in  massive data theft that included the hacking of Candidate Muhammadu  Buhari’s personal data before the last general elections.  "PDP’s  continued silence on this reprehensible heist only goes to confirm  their remorselessness even as more and more facts are emerging that the  same unfair method was the modus operandi that they used to capture  political power in the 2017 elections."