President Muhammadu Buhari says he looks forward to any form of collaboration between Nigeria and Ghana in tackling corruption. Buhari assured Ghanaian President Nana Akuffo Addo of being his good partner in that regard. Buhari spoke in Accra on Tuesday at Ghana’s 61st independence anniversary celebration. He acknowledged Ghana's efforts towards stamping out corruption which, he noted,  had eaten  deep into the society. President Buhari congratulated the government and the parliament of Ghana for the quick passage of the Office of the Prosecution Bill and its signing into law. He said it is with the right leadership that poverty could be eradicated and democracy entrenched. Buhari said close cultural and historical ties shared by Nigeria and Ghana had continued to shape their bilateral relations. "I know with pride that our common colonial experience and sociology and economic political development and the patriotic vision of our leaders have helped greatly in shaping this unique relationship, not only in the West Africa, region, but our collaborative actions internationally. It is therefore my strong desire to ensure that our good people continue to live in each other's s country. Our newly permanent joint commission has already provided us a good platform in resolving any differences by focussing on our main developmental objectives," he said. Acknowledging Ghana's efforts in ensuring peace in Togo by bringing all parties to the negotiation table, Buhari appealed to all parties in Togo to come together and resolve their differences in order to move forward. He said he wanted Nigeria and Ghana to continue to provide the impetus in realizing the objectives and ideals of the founding fathers of the economic community of West Africa States to ensure security peace and development of the region. He congratulated Akkufo on his successful one year in office and on the success recorded by his administration within a space of "just three hundred and sixty five days. All these efforts,  I'm aware,  have made Ghana to become a good destination for foreign direct investment just like Nigeria. President Buhari also congratulated the government and people of Ghana" on this momentous occasion of the celebration of freedom long live the Republic of Ghana."