The Lagos State Police Command in a case of “man’s inhumanity to man” has arrested one Mrs. Nkeiruka  Ngwu, 36, of 47 Ogundana Street, off Allen Avenue, Ikeja for allegedly maltreating her house help, Chioma Samuel. The mother of four children was said to have brought Samuel, 10, to Lagos from Umuoju, Ngwu in Abia State  sometime in January 2018  after the death of the poor girl’s father with the promise of giving her good life. She was mentally and physically abused with many injury marks  to show for it. Information gathered from the police showed that on Wednesday 7th of March, 2018, the suspect allegedly used a hot iron to cause grievous injury on  the victim’s hands and legs. She also poured hot water on her which scalded her skin. But Madam Ngwu met her waterloo on Thursday 8 March, 2018 when she brought her children to a private school located somewhere in Ikeja. Unfortunately for her, the prying eyes of other mothers who came to the  same school to drop off their kids,  noticed the gaping wounds on the upper and lower limbs of the victim who accompanied the suspect to the school. After questioning the girl, they waited for her Madam who had gone to drop her kids in their different classrooms. According to the police, when she finished and was about to drive off, she was confronted by these women who nearly mobbed her but they were calmed by some teachers. The women told the suspect to take the girl to a hospital or else they would petition the state Commissioner of Police, Edgal Imohimi. In spite of their warning to report her to the authorities, Mrs. Ngwu came to the school on Friday 9th March, 2018, accompanied by the child victim whose  wounds were manifestly untreated. On seeing that their warnings were not hearkened to, the women reportedly called the attention of the Commissioner of Police, Lagos State to the matter. The CP immediately ordered the arrest of the woman and directed the Gender Section of the Command  to take the child-victim to police hospital for proper treatment. Spokesman of the police command, SP Chike Oti who confirmed the development said the Gender section has been directed to ensure that the girl is fed very well until the Social Welfare Department of the Lagos State Government comes for the girl. Oti said investigation into the case is in progress while the adult offender would be charged to court today Monday 12th March,  2018.