A Federal High Court in Abuja has fixed April 25 for judgment in the suit by the Accord Party challenging the reordering of the 2019 election sequence by the National Assembly. Justice Ahmed Mohammed fixed the date yesterday after the counsel to the parties concluded submissions on their written addresses. Counsel to Accord Party, Wole Olanipekun in his submission asked the court to stop the move by the National Assembly to alter the 2019 general election sequence as set by the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). He argued that if the assembly is allowed to change the election timetable and INEC also goes ahead to postpone the date set by the assembly, which it has the statutorily powers to make, it will create abnormal situation in the electoral process. Olanipekun said based on a Supreme Court pronouncement of May 7, 2016, the court has the powers to restrain the National Assembly from further exercising its powers under Section 58 (5) of the 1999 Constitution by overriding the President’s assent with two-third majority. He added that the alteration bill has become dead since the President declined assent. Also, counsel to INEC, Femi Falana (SAN) argued that sections 78(1), 116, 132, 153, 178 and item 15 to the Third Schedule of the 1999 Constitution gave the electoral body the discretion to the choice of date for elections. The Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister for Justice, Abubakar Malami (SAN), who is joined as a defendant in the suit, however said he is not objecting to the originating summons filed by the Accord Party. He asked the court to invoke its jurisdiction under Section 4 (8) of the 1999 Constitution in determining the legislative powers of the assembly. However, counsel to the National Assembly, Joseph Daudu (SAN) asked the court to dismiss the Accord Party’s suit for being ‘academic’ and ‘inchoate’. He said the court cannot activate its jurisdiction under Section 1(3) of the Constitution since the Bill has not become an Act through the process of gathering the required signature to override the president.