The Lagos State government yesterday resolved to change the face of public transportation by providing standard facilities for residents of the state who use public transportation daily. The assurance came at the unveiling of the ultra-modern Ikeja Bus Terminal, in line with the Bus Reform Initiative of the state government. President Muhammadu Buhari unveiled the facility yesterday as part of his two-day official visit to Lagos. Statistics provided by the state government showed that over 12 million people use public transportation daily in Lagos State. Therefore, according to Governor Akinwunmi Ambode, the Ikeja terminal is one of the 13 of such terminals designed to change the narrative in Lagos by exposing the people to a befitting and comfortable environment to commute across the state. Buhari lauded the state government for various initiatives aimed at catering for the movement of the growing population of the state and making modern buses available to the people. He said, “I recognise the push of the state government in reforming public transportation, especially the Bus Reform Project, which will make modern transport buses that are air-conditioned available to the people. “I also acknowledge the vision of the Lagos State government on revamping the railway transportation system. Presently, we have outlined in our new-year message the plan for a pan-African railway transportation. I commend Lagos State for also developing a rail infrastructure to cater for the movement of its growing population.” Ambode said the Ikeja Bus Terminal signposted the commitment of his administration to reform public transportation infrastructure and management in the state. He also disclosed that the state had commenced the introduction of 5,000 new buses into the Lagos economy in the next three years. “We will inject 820 environmentally-friendly high capacity buses in the first phase of this reform by September 2018,  and there will be 300 new bus stops, three bus depots, and an intelligent transport system which will aid Lagos residents to plan their journeys on our public transport system. “Work is ongoing on the 27-kilometre Blue Line Rail project from Okokomaiko West of Lagos to Marina in Central Lagos. We are in discussions with various investors and stakeholders on our urban rail project, the Red Line, from Alagbado to Marina,” he added.