Members of the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) Osun State Chapter today trooped out en-masse and participated in the Local Government congress of the party which was conducted in all the local government areas in the state. The congress was held across the state and the process was monitored and observed by officials of the Independent National Electoral Commission and security men drawn from the Department of Security Service, (DSS) the Nigeria Police Force (NPF) and the Nigeria Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC). In the local government areas monitored by Daily Trust, members of the party were excited as they queue up to vote for their new leaders. Party stalwarts including Senator Olu Alabi and Alhaji Saka Oyedeji who spoke with Daily Trust expressed satisfaction over the large turnout of party members. The leader of the delegation sent from the PDP National Secretariat to conduct the local government congress, Chief Ndidi Okereke commended the PDP members in the state for their peaceful conduct during the process. The Senator representing Osun West Senatorial District, Senator Ademola Adeleke also expressed delight with the successful conduct of the congresses of the party at the ward and Local government levels. Adeleke said this has enabled members of the party to choose their leaders through a transparent and democratic process which will ensure the smooth running of the party at the grassroots level across the state. The Senator noted the development was a confirmation of the fact that PDP as a people focused party remained formidable, strong and repositioned to win the September 22nd governorship election in the state. He charged all members of the party in the state to close ranks and work together in the interest of the good people of the state who were clamouring for the party to come and rescue the state from oppression and abject poverty. According to him, “I commend members of our great party for coming out en-masse to participate in this democratic exercise and for their smooth and peaceful conduct” “The large turnout of the party faithful was impressive and this confirms the party's growing popularity in the state and readiness to take over from the incumbent in the next general election by God’s grace.” Therefore, this exercise is the right step in the right direction that will lead our great party to victory in September. PDP remains the only hope of the people of Osun State at the moment”, Senator Adeleke said. Meanwhile, the arrowhead of the PDP faction in the state, Dr Bayo Faforiji said his side was not carried along and that his faction did not partake. He said the congress was one-sided.