The Federal Government has described as an invitation to anarchy remarks by former Defence Minister, Lieutenant General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma that people should rise and protect themselves. Danjuma, a former Chief of Army Staff, had said at a convocation ceremony of Taraba State University Saturday that the Nigerian Army had taken sides in farmers/herders conflicts. However, in a statement yesterday, the Minister of Defence, Mansur Dan Ali, said “the Nigerian Armed Forces is well organised and highly professional in discharging its constitutional mandate.” The minister’s statement issued by his spokesman, Colonel Tukur Gusau, called on anyone with evidence of wrongdoings or dereliction of duty against any member of the armed forces to come forward with such evidence through the appropriate channels for necessary action. The statement reads: “The attention of the Ministry of Defence was drawn to a recent comment by one of the elder statesmen alleging that the military colludes with bandits to kill people and therefore, called on them to rise and defend themselves outside constitutional provisions. “This is highly uncalled for and is invitation to anarchy and should be disregarded by well meaning Nigerians. “The efforts of the Nigerian Armed Forces towards restoration of peace, security and order in Nigeria are evidently clear and Nigerians continue to show appreciation for changing the security environment from what it was before. “The Nigerian Armed Forces is well organised and highly professional in discharging its constitutional mandate. Therefore, if anyone has evidence of wrongdoings or dereliction of duty against our troops should please bring forward such evidence through the appropriate channels for necessary action. “For the avoidance of doubt the Military will not be distracted from performing its statutory duties in accordance with the rules of engagement. Nigerians should please continue to support the military so that all security challenges will be overcome within the shortest possible time.” We are neutral – Army In a separate statement yesterday, the Nigerian Army denied the accusation and said it is neutral in its operations The Army described as unfortunate Danjuma’s remarks which came at a time the demilitarisation of the north-central had just commenced. The statement issued by Army spokesman, Brig Gen Texas Chukwu  reads: “The attention of the Nigerian Army has been drawn to the unfortunate statement made by a former Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Theophilus Yakubu Danjuma, during the convocation ceremony of the Taraba State University on Saturday 24 March 2018 in which he categorically asserted that the Armed Forces of Nigeria was colluding with militias and other criminal elements and was unable to provide security for the citizens of Taraba State. “He further called the people of Taraba State to take up arms and defend themselves. The Nigerian Army views this statement made by the former Chief of Army Staff as most unfortunate at this critical time that the military has embarked upon demilitarisation of the North Central Region of the Country. “While Nigerian Army would not want to join issues with the Elder Statesman, however, certain facts need to be clearly stated in the interest of the Taraba People and the Nigerian public: “The Nigerian Army is constitutionally charged with the responsibility of defending the territorial integrity of Nigeria and to aid the civil authority whenever called upon to do so. In this light, the authorisation for the conduct of Ex AYEM AKPATUMA was authorised and troops deployed to curb menace of the herdsmen-farmers conflict and other criminal activities in the North Central Region amongst others. “It is on record that the successes so far achieved in Ex AYEM AKPATUMA have been recognised and accepted by Nigerians. “The public is notified that Nigerian Army personnel have had to pay the supreme price for ensuring the sustenance of security in Taraba State. For instance, a gallant non-commissioned officer of the Nigerian Army was beheaded on 16 March 2018 in Takum Taraba State by criminal elements. “It is noteworthy to state that at the inception of Ex AYEM AKPATUMA, the Taraba State Government, did not cooperate with the Nigerian Army due to the Army’s stance to remain absolutely neutral in the herdsmen-farmers crisis. The Nigerian Army will continue to remain as such. “For avoidance of doubt, the Nigerian Army advises the people of Taraba State and indeed all other Nigerians to continue in their day-to-day activities and be law abiding as anyone caught with arms and ammunition will be dealt with accordance with the laws of the land. “Every law-abiding citizen is assured of equal protection and security of their lives and property irrespective of his/her person. Meanwhile, Chukwu said that the army arrested three suspected criminals in Taraba on Saturday. He said one of them, Rapheal Yakwa was arrested while taking unauthorised and suspicious photographs at a military event. Chukwu alleged that during preliminary investigation, it was discovered Yakwa was among some youths “being sponsored by certain individuals of Taraba State to cause uprisings in the area.’’ “He has also confessed to have participated in most nefarious activities of a group; this was further proven by series of media content discovered on his mobile phone. “His – Yakwa, confession has led to the arrest of another suspect, Irambariye Mamman, who is said to be the youth leader as well as the leader of the group. “Also apprehended is one Micah Audu, who has confessed to be member of the gang,’’ he said.