Why are Nigerian indigenous upstream exploration and production companies looking for prominence? When we say we are looking for prominence, I think for too long, the Nigerian indigenous upstream exploration and production companies have been given a tag. We don’t do things properly, we are not like the Indigenous Oil Companies (IOCs), but you need the indigenous companies. One of the things about us is that when we produce oil and gas, we most likely will want to send the gas to the domestic market. I don’t have a Liquefied Natural Gas (LNG) plant to export it, and most likely, we will want to send the crude to our local refinery if we can. So, I am impacting the local economy better than the IOCs who tend to just export. Every country benefits from having local players, and Nigeria has uniquely been blessed by that positioning. If you go to the US, 50 to 60 years ago, they had the local players who matured and went international, and you have the same thing in the UK. So, what’s happening in Nigeria is not new, government needs to encourage it because ultimately the oil industry has to be in the hands of Nigerians. Not that you are squeezing away the IOCs, but you are getting the right balance. So, when I say we are looking for prominence, we are not saying we are looking for favours; we just want government to recognise us, and government has done that over the years; don’t get me wrong. What we are saying is that let us be part of this game. When the minister says I have gone to the IOC head offices, he hasn’t come to our own single office in Lagos or in Port Harcourt. You have got to balance it and look at the home front. There is a target for IOCs to handle up to 40 per cent of Nigeria’s crude oil production from the current level. Do they have the capacity to achieve this? Absolutely; I will give you some statistics. Seplat Petroleum Development Company PLC bought some assets from Shell-OML 4, 38 and 41. The assets were producing 15,000 barrels per day (bpd) but today they are producing 80,000 bpd. Seplat has invested probably in excess of $5/6bn into those assets. If Shell was still there, because Shell has so many assets, maybe they wouldn’t have spent even $200m. When you grow production, the tax in our industry is 85 per cent, so Seplat is paying 85 per cent tax. When you say “can we?” That is one example. ND Western, Eroton or Aiteo which bought assets making 40,000 bpd have taken it to 90,000 bpd. Why have indigenous companies been able to do that? One reason; focus. Shell has so many assets, you buy one, and what do you do? You have invested in buying it, you have to pay your loans back. So, you focus, and your focus is for growth. Do we have the capacity? Of course we have the capacity, but we have to be more responsible. We have to grow capacity, we have to make sure we train our staff and do the same things the international companies do for their staff. Rome wasn’t built in a day, but I will have to tell you that we have gone a long way. The IPPG was formed mainly for two reasons. One is to collaboratively work to impact on the oil and gas sector in Nigeria. One of us can’t do it, we are about 25 members. We believe that it is the indigenous companies that are going to produce gas for the domestic market; it won’t be the IOCs because their preference is to sell gas in the international market. When you sell gas, you sell it for naira mainly, but they don’t want naira, they want dollars and all that; but we are happy with naira because we can run our operations in naira. How serious is the problem of uncertainty over fiscal laws in the sector considering the fact that the first phase of the old PIB, that is the PIGB, has been passed and presidential assent pending? Let me explain it in very simple terms. If you want to buy a flat, you don’t know the price of the flat, they are telling you the price is going to change; maybe the guy painting it hasn’t finished and the price of paint will change. Maybe in the state where the flat is located they are telling you that they are going to change the land levy. What do you do? Do you invest? You wait until there is certainty; that is the cloud on our head. They want to change the tax laws; they want to change the governance, they want to change fiscal and administrative bills. All of those things make an investor to wait and see what’s going to happen. We are almost going to 15 years, investors have been waiting, and when they wait, they don’t wait with their money; they take it to where? Ghana, Senegal, Kenya because Nigeria has not taken itself serious. Over the last 10 to 15 years they have taken their money somewhere else. We must be smart enough to realise that. I made a point that Nigeria does not need to invest in oil and gas; it should be investing in other things. Oil and gas can attract investment on its own. Government not funding the industry is a good thing, they can’t even afford it. They should go and fund agriculture, telecoms and roads and leave the industry to investors; but those investors need certainty. If we miss the opportunity (to pass the PIB) by middle of this year, it won’t happen until maybe 2019 or 2020, and that will be disastrous. When you say the IOCs are the ones that will drive the gas market in Nigeria, are there plans already in place to achieve that? Today, of maybe about 1.5 to 2 billion cubic feet (of gas) being produced, IOCs produce maybe about 70 per cent of what goes into the domestic market. Seplat is producing about 400 million standard cubic feet (scf) today; that is an indigenous company. We (First E&P) plan to produce about 200 million scf by 2020. Dangote is building a major pipeline offshore to bring gas from offshore to the domestic market. NDP is doing gas development. I can keep listing companies. The reason why domestic gas is difficult is because the price is low and also, the off takers don’t pay regularly. So, you supply gas to NGC, they don’t pay you often. An international company will not take that, but we are willing to bear some of that because we know that it is a long term game. Also, when you want to take a market from someone else, you are more aggressive. I honestly believe that because of all the factors around the gas business, the indigenous companies are going to dominate domestic gas supply, and we are ready for that challenge I can tell you. Against the backdrop of what is happening with shale gas vis-à-vis their low production cost; what is your association doing to drive down cost of production? Our cost of production is $10 for First E&P. Most indigenous companies are going to be at a lower cost of production. What you should be asking is “what makes up cost of production?” So, there is just the operation of the business, there is a community side, money for licence to operate, community development, social interaction and then there is security. Security is already 25 per cent of our cost. So, when people talk about cost of production, the environment is an impact. We are adding 20 to 30 per cent of our cost because of the environment. Each time you want to go out you do so with a Mopol or military and having JTF out there is a cost to the industry also.