The Kogi State Police Command has declared Senator Dino Melaye (APC, Kogi West) and Mohammed Audu wanted for allegedly failing to honour the invitations given to them to explain their involvement in an arms supplies allegations levelled against them by two suspected thugs now on the run. 

Kogi State Police Commissioner, CP Ali Janga had made the declaration earlier Wednesday in Lokoja while speaking on the escape of six suspects that fled police detention in the early hours of Wednesday. 

The Commissioner confirmed that two suspected thugs who recently indicted Senator Dino Melaye (APC, Kogi West) of supplying them weapons to cause mayhem in Kogi State ahead of 2019 elections escaped from police cell alongside four other suspects. 

According to Janga, the suspects escaped from the SARS' Cell situated at the 'A' Police Division in Lokoja at about 3.20 am on Wednesday. 

The two principal suspects that indicted Senator Melaye but now on the run are Kabiru Seidu, aka Osama and Nuhu Salisu, aka Small. 

The four other suspects who escaped from detention alongside the duo are Aliyu Isa, Adams Suleiman, Emmanuel Audu and Musa Mohammed. 

"As I am talking to you now, the names of all the suspects have been sent to Interpol; they will be on watch list and declared wanted including Senator Dino Melaye and Mohammed Audu.

"The Command is hereby appealing to members of the public to assist the police with useful information on the whereabouts of the suspects by reporting to the nearest police station", he said. 

Recall that the Police Force Public Relations Officer, Jimoh Moshood had on March 19 paraded the duo of Osama and Small with two AK-47 and five pump action guns allegedly supplied to them by Melaye.

However, the dramatic escape of the two principal suspects and the four others was coming barely 24 hours after the Senate mandated its committee on Police and Judiciary to investigate the controversies surrounding the allegations of arms supplies levelled against Melaye vis-a-vis the alleged role of the Nigerian Police and the Kogi State government.