The Lagos State governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, yesterday identified skills acquisition as a pathway to economic prosperity and personal development of youths in the state, with a promise that his administration will continue to support initiatives towards that drive. Gov Ambode, who spoke at the graduation ceremony/job fair of the first set of trainees from the Lagos State Employability Project (LSESP) held in Oregun, Ikeja, Lagos, said the graduation of 540 graduants was one of the primary goals of the Employment Trust Fund (LSETF) set up by his administration two years ago to address the issue of unemployment among youths. He expressed excitement that while many residents and entrepreneurs had taken advantage of the fund, the LSESP was providing a viable platform to bridge the gap of shortage of skilled and employable labour required to fill the needs of the job market, and also provide 10,000 new jobs for youths by 2019. The governor, who was represented by the Deputy Governor, Mrs Oluranti Adebule, said through the successful graduation of the 540 trainees, his administration was laying the necessary foundations for steady and sustainable economic growth in Lagos State. Each of the graduates would be awarded a certificate endorsed by both the Lagos State Technical and Vocational Education Board (LASTVEB) and the Australian Vocational Training and Employment Group (AVTEG), which the governor would affirm them as globally competitive and employable. He also said that the project was a testament to the successful collaboration between the LSETF and the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in strengthening the human capital potential of Lagos youths and expand their employment opportunities to contribute their quota to the growth and development of the state. He told the youths, “The state has done its part and kept its pledge to provide a safety net to any Lagos resident who needs a helping hand. It is now up to you to go forth and capitalize on the assistance you have received.” In her welcome address, the Chairman of the LSETF, Mrs Ifueko Omoigui-Okauru, said the Employability Project was the result of a partnership between the LSETF and the UNDP to improve the technical and vocational training outcomes in the state with an aim to increase employment opportunities for young people in Lagos. She commended private companies, including Dangote Group, Construction Kaizer, Samsung, Crown Nature Plc, Whispering Palms, Farenheit Hospitality, X3M group and Summit Chanrai Group, who she said participated in the scheme, adding that since the application process opened in December 2017, over 13,000 applications had been received across six sectors that included garment making, hospitality and construction.