Four people died as a Lexus Jeep plying one way rammed into a commercial bus on Lekki/Epe Expressway yesterday, the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) has said. The General Manager of LASEMA, Mr Adesina Tiamiyu, said in a statement in Lagos that the accident happened at the First Gate inward Oriental Hotel, along Lekki/Epe Expressway. Tiamiyu said the Jeep GX470 with registration number KJA-615DF was plying one way. “The Lexus Jeep ran into a commercial bus (KRE-302XA) that was just cleared by the ticketing officers at the toll gate. “A total of four fatalities were recorded which includes three adult male and an adult female. “Sixteen casualties with severe injuries were recorded, including four adult female and 12 adult male. The driver of the jeep was transported to the General Hospital, Marina. ”The LASEMA Response Team alongside LASAMBUS, RRS, Nigeria Police Force, State Environmental Monitoring Unit (SEHMU) and LCCI were responders present at the scene of the incident,” he said. According to him, the two adult male who died at the scene were subsequently handed over to the Lagos State Environmental Health Monitoring Unit (SEHMU), while the remaining two, an adult male and an adult female, were later confirmed dead. Mr Adesina said that the accidented vehicles were recovered off the road with the aid of the agency’s light tow truck and subsequently handed over to the Lekki Concession Company Ltd (LCC) officials, who moved them down to Maroko Police station. He, therefore, advised motorists to always endeavour to drive with caution when driving on highways. The general manager urged motorists to abstain from drinking alcohol before driving, as well as ensure road worthiness of vehicles before embarking on journeys to avoid unecessary loss of lives. Tiamiyu said that the Lekki incident would be further investigated by the security operatives, while the state government would also ensure prosecution of the culprit to serve as deterrence of errant motorists (NAN)