The Permanent Secretary, Service, Policies and Strategies Office (SPSO), Office of the Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, Mr. Ndubuisi Osuji has said that the decisions of the 39th National Council on Establishment (NCE) held in Minna, Niger State were fully implemented. The decisions according to him include uniform Scheme of Service for all category of Nurses with common nomenclature of ‘Nursing Officers’, Internship for graduate Nurses who do not possess the professional registered Nurse/Registered Midwife qualification. others are; Enhancing entry Salary Grade Level 08 for all categories of Higher National Diploma (HND) holders; and creation of Assistant Education Officers Cadre SGL 07-14 for candidates with requisite qualification in Special Education, have been fully implemented through various circulars, as well as conveyed to the relevant stakeholders that originated the memoranda. He spoke on Thursday during the opening ceremony of the Technical Session of the 40th National Council on Establishment holding in Owerri, Imo State, according to a statement signed by the Assistant Director Media Relations Office of Head of the Civil Service of the Federation Timothy Akpoili. Osuji also said that the meeting will consider a total of 80 memoranda comprising 18 reference cases and 66 new memoranda, submitted by state governments, Federal Government agencies and other stakeholders. He said the reports and recommendations of both the Standing Committees and Joint National Public Service Negotiating Councils are part of the agenda for the meeting. According to him, the previous decisions of council on creation of new cadres, amendment or elongation of existing cadres, have been collated for inclusion in the on-going review of the Scheme of Service due to be publish soon. This, he noted, will achieve the twin objectives of producing a single reference document for all cadres/professional groups in the Civil Service, as well as reduce the numerous requests for clarifications and interpretation on various establishment decisions of Council. The Head of Service, Imo State, Mr. Callistus Ekenze, in his address said that the meeting will signpost a lot of issues and throw up matters that will at the end gladden the mind of workers. He called on all participants to give their best and contribute constructively to issues that will be raised. 