The Korean Cultural Centre in Nigeria has conducted a joint training exercise for 110 school children in the Federal Capital Territory (FCT) yesterday. The exercise is part of the Centre’s partnership deal with FCT Universal Basic Education Board since 2014 to introduce Taekwondo in public schools in FCT. The kids were drawn from four public schools in the FCT; Model Primary School Maitama, LEA Primary School Wuse Zone III, LEA Primary School Wuse V Zone I and Model Junior Secondary School Maitama. Speaking with Fever Pitch after the two-hour training exercise, Coach Abdul-Malik Mohammad who was in charge of the exercise, said the objective of the combine training was to “introduce more advanced training and competitive activities that include Olympic-style sparring and Pomsae (forms) as well as to acquaint students with upcoming events.” Mohammad said it will also help create friendship among the students. “Taekwondo helps children build confidence, enhances discipline, sharpens mental alertness, enhances self esteem, strengthens the mind and body and teaches self defense,” he added. He said the kids had been training separately at their respective schools since the programme started four years ago. “The whole essence of the program is to support grassroots sports and youth development in Nigeria and further strengthen the bilateral ties between the Republic of Korea and Nigeria. “Recall that the over 110 Taekwondo students in FCT schools had undergone their first grading test between March 8 and 9 2018 and successful students have been promoted to the next level,” the coach added. He expressed optimism that Nigeria could start winning medals in Taekwondo from the 2020 Olympics, considering the pace at which the sport is gaining popularity in the country. “Nigerians are very talented and with little efforts, they can start bringing in medals for the country,” he said. A teacher, Nweke Rebecca of LEA Primary School Wuse 5 Zone 1 said she came with 20 kids from her school to participate in the programme. While noting that the sport helps the kids to control their emotion, she expressed dismay that some parents were withdrawing their children from the programme “thinking that all they learn is how to fight.”