  A former member of the House of Representative under PDP also a former gubernatorial aspirant under APC, has defected from All Progressive Congress (APC) to the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Chief Emmanuel Bello has announced his intentions to contest again as the gubernatorial aspirant come 2019. Bello stated this yesterday at his residence in Dougirei, Yola, during a press briefing mentioning his reason for defecting from APC to SDP was to seek refuge and get social justice for his people in Adamawa State. He said he use to envisage that moving to APC will help him realize his ambition to better the lot of his people in terms of insecurity, growing unemployment, breakdown of health systems and complete collapse of the school system and education infrastructure in Adamawa State but his aspirations were never realized within the APC. He lamented that ever since he has become a member of APC in the state, he has never been invited for a meeting of any structure of the party and describe the party as ‘dead’ and lacks cohesion in the state. “Since I became a member of APC in Adamawa state, I have never been invited for a meeting of any structure of the party in the state. This is because no meeting of any of the party’s structures by people authorized to do so “. He stated. “In technical terms, the Party is dead in Adamawa state and its relics in the pocket of a few”. “Today the Party lacks cohesion and unity required to present a common front. It is obvious that we had been strange-bed-mates in APC in Adamawa state”. He stated. Emmanuel said its high time he move away from the confusion in APC and graciously join the social Democratic Party (SDP) because SDP is the party he has once belongs to and it has represented the philosophy, ideas and fundamental political positions he believed in which has moulded his politics all these years. “I have decided to move away from the confusions in the APC and graciously join the SDP. My decision is actually a happy return. I once belong to the party and its represents the philosophy, ideas and fundamental political positions I believe in and have moulded my politics all these years”. He stated. Bello has laid down his resignation of being an APC member on the 3rd of March, 2018 at his ward in Garkida, Gombi Local Government Area of Adamawa state. According to the fundamental right as enriched in the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, he has joined the Social Democratic on the 4th of March, 2019 adding that he has found great relief working with the people of like minds and democrats who believe in the Nigerian project. 