Kano state government has dispelled rumours making the rounds especially on social media platforms of a purported threat to kidnap students in boarding schools in the state. A statement by the Commissioner for Information, Muhammad Garba, said the rumours, were baseless, unfounded and should be discarded. Garba advised the public, especially parents, guardians and care givers to remain calm and allow their wards to remain in schools until the completion of examinations. He assured that adequate security measures had been put in place by the government to protect lives and properties of citizens including schools in the state. Daily Trust observes that there was panic in the state especially among parents and guardians over allegation of attack on schools. Alhaji Abdulhameed Baffa Adam, a resident of Badawa told Daily Trust that "I was called by my wife and informed that there was signal from the management of my children's school that we should go and take them from school immediately. "We were told that there was threat of attack on schools by Boko Haram insurgents. I have heard about the development since Wednesday night, but I did not take it serious until I hear from the school authority." Our reporter, who went round to some schools in the state metropolis, observed panic evacuation of children from schools by their parents. Daily Trust also observed that most schools across the state metropolis closed down earlier before the normal closing hours. A security guard at Leads School along Lamido road in Nassarawa GRA, who craved anonymity, told Daily Trust that the school closed around 12pm. He said, "The management of the school called most of the parents through their phone numbers and informed them about its decision to close school early so that they can come and pick their children." When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, SP Magaji Musa Majia, said the rumours were the handiwork of bad elements in the society. He said, "Police and proprietors of private schools had established a strong committee through which we get useful information to ensure adequate security around schools."