President Muhammadu Buhari has reiterated its commitment to free and fair elections in 2019, saying he had no fear for credible polls. Speaking on Sunday while addressing Nigerian community in China, Buhari said he contested the 2015 presidential elections after three unsuccessful efforts, because of what he “believe in” “I have no fear for free and fair election. I know what I went through. I ended up three times in Supreme Court and the third time in 2011, I said God dey. And really God dey. The fourth time, technology came and helped us and people’s votes counted. He said those in power could have manipulated the results of the election but for the introduction of permanent voters’ card and card readers. “The fourth time, God heard our prayers and technology came to the help, PVC and the card readers. Otherwise, those in power could have done what they are used to, get list of constituencies, award numbers and announce it and said, if you have problem, go to court,” he said. “If you are interested in participating, get your permanent voters card, the president added. He stressed that the Nigerian police and other law enforcement agencies must respect the people. “Let them win election.” According to him, the ruling All Progressives Congress is “not doing badly” after winning Bauchi Katsina and Kogi bye elections. The president said despite challenges, the federal government is making progress in improving the economy. He said the PDP government wasted Nigeria’s resources during its 16-year rule when crude production was 2.1 million barrels daily and sold at 100 dollars per barrel. “It means Nigeria was earning huge. But what is the condition of the road?…16 billion dollars was spent on power but there is no improvement. Really, I cannot complain. I tried four times. “I was overwhelmed by the problem I inherited. But I can’t complain to Nigeria. The best thing is for me to perform. I should try and deliver on my campaign promises,” he said. He therefore urged the diaspora Nigerians to contribute toward the development of the country. Meanwhile, President Buhari commended the Chinese government for supporting various infrastructural projects across the country, saying “China is doing very well relatively to those who colonise us.” 