A former vice president, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday in Abuja wept openly over the country’s challenges when some support groups bought and presented to him, the expression of interest and nomination forms to contest the presidential election on the platform of the PDP next year. But Atiku will after passing through the PDP screening exercise, slug it out with over 10 other contenders at the presidential primary. He couldn’t hold back tears at his presidential campaign office where the support groups presented the forms. The former vice president became emotional when one Princess AdekemiAdesanya delivered her address which reflected on the nation’s current challenges. Atiku who spoke shortly after the woman’s speech, said, “It is almost three decades of my political career this year, but today has turned out to be one of the most emotional days in those three decades. “The event today is significant, it is historic because this is the only time in my political career that young men and women in this country have come together without my knowledge or even consent and contributed their own hard earned money to buy me a nomination form and expression of interest form. “But you could have seen one of the people who spoke, the lady who spoke virtually succeeded in getting me to weep. This is because she aptly described the challenges every Nigerian is facing in this country today and she believes honestly and sincerely from the bottom of her heart that I could be an instrument of addressing those challenges. “And believe me, addressing those challenges is possible because we have brought young men and women, Nigerians who have got the talents, who have got the education, who have got the experience, who have got all what it takes to honestly turn this country around. “So, for such a woman to believe that I have got those leadership qualities and including those of you who have brought out your monies to buy these forms is one of the most serious challenges I have ever faced in my political career. “It is not that it is not doable, it is doable and I think together we can do it. So ladies and gentlemen, I want to make an undertaking and I hope we get that opportunity to work together so that this undertaking of mine can be achieved because I alone cannot achieve that undertaking,” he said.