A renowned Islamic Scholar, Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, has stressed the need for the Federal Government and Nigerians to embrace prayers as solution to the security challenges facing the country. The cleric gave the advice at the 2018 42nd Annual Maulud and Special Prayer for Nigeria, organised by Darikar Tijjaniyya Movement at the National Mosque, in Abuja on Friday. He said it was only frequent payers that could help Nigeria tackle terrorism, kidnapping, armed robbery, farmers/herdsmen clashes and other social vices in the country. He said prayer was a very important tool in addressing any societal malady, adding that both Islam and Christianity clearly recognised the power of prayers. Sheikh Dahiru recalled that it was the power of prayer that helped Nigerian government under General Yakubu Gowon to overcome the civil war, insisting that prayer was the greatest weapon of believers. He said during the Nigerian civil war, the government invited Sheikh Ibrahim Nyass from Senegal to pray for the country and by the grace of Allah, the war ended in less than 40 days after the prayer. The cleric admonished the adherents of Darikar Tijjaniyya movement to emulate the virtues of Nyass, who brought countless blessing to mankind during his life time. Buhari, represented by the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu commended the leader of Tijjaniyya for his contribution to peace building and sustenance in the country. Earlier, Malam Shehu El-Ibrahim, the Chairman Organising Committee of the programme, said the event was part of efforts of the group to enhance peace and tranquillity in the country. He said Nigeria needed prayer now more than any other period because of the numerous security challenges facing the country. He restated readiness of the group to continue to pray for the peace, progress and development of Nigeria, adding that without peace there would be no meaningful development in the country. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that many members of the movement converged at the Abuja National Mosque to attend the 42nd Annual Maulud of Tijjaniyya. (NAN)