A teenager who was not expected to reach her first birthday after being born with a rare facial tumor that leaves her unable to speak or eat is set to graduate from college next year. Jacqueline Rodriguez, 16, from California, suffers from lymphatic malformations, an extremely rare condition that forms a large tumor in her cheeks and tongue. Despite having to communicate via an iPad and eat through a formula feeding tube, she hopes to  study nursing at Stanford University, and spends her spare time playing tennis and the guitar. Jacqueline has also overcome bullying, and credits her close friends and family for helping her to stay positive. She said: ‘My parents help me by trying to make my life as normal as possible. ‘The future is bright.’ Jacqueline said: ‘I want to be a nurse because I grew up in a hospital helping my nurses take care of others. The future is bright.’ Despite her difficulties communicating, the teenager’s proud parents have no doubt she will succeed. Jacqueline’s father Paul Rodriguez, 60, said: ‘I feel very comfortable that she will grow up to be successful in anything she does. ‘She is the most amazing person I’ve ever known. To come across so many obstacles and still have confidence and perseverance - we’re really proud. ‘That little girl just wants to live. Every day she wakes up with a smile on her face and it just encourages you. ‘She has been the best thing that happened to us. ‘She has dreams for the future and she is looking forward to it.’ Although Jacqueline is positive about her future, the teenager has endured cruel comments and stares all her life. She said: ‘People normally stare at me and point a lot. People do say mean things. ‘It makes me feel sad because they don’t know me enough to say mean things. I’m a normal human being.’ Yet, Jacqueline’s love of sports, as well as her close friends and family, have helped her to overcome such nasty taunts. She said: ‘Tennis helps with my confidence by knowing that I am strong enough to play a sport.’ Jacqueline’s sister Anna Belle, 19, added: ‘I can’t believe Jacky is graduating school soon. Good for her!’ Culled from dailymail.co.uk