Detectives in Lagos have arrested two sisters for allegedly threatening to kill the Head Teacher of Handmaids International Catholic School, Reverend Sister Mary Okolo. The police described one of the suspects, Uchenna Agagwaonye, as a teacher at the school, which is located at Aguda, Surulere, in Lagos State. Agagwaonye, 40, and her accomplice, Ngozi Nnabude, 46, said to be blood relations, were said to have confessed to the crime. The police said the two women claimed they wanted to teach Rev. Sister Okolo a bitter lesson for what they regarded as her high-handedness. The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, said investigation into the case revealed that Agagwaonye, frustrated by what she termed Okolo’s high-handedness, decided to make life miserable for the Catholic nun by engaging Nnabude, who the police described as having an “outstanding knowledge” of the computer and the telephone. Edgal said, “They conspired to put the nun under constant fear and apprehension of imminent danger. When the threats to maim, kidnap, kill and expose her unfounded secret sex life continued unabated, Rev. Sister Okolo reported the matter to the command’s anti-kidnapping unit. “The intelligence component of the command was directed to unmask those behind the threat to the life of the poor nun. The intelligence generated revealed that Uchenna Agagwaonye’s job was to monitor Okolo and pass information gathered to her sister, Ngozi, who now called the Rev. Sister to tell her movement. She used to tell the Rev. Sister such threat messages like ‘I can see you, you are putting on this and that type of clothes and shoes. You are in so so place, you can’t hide from us and you will be killed soon.’” The police commissioner added that the Head Teacher was very frightened by the accurate information the caller was giving about her. The suspects were said to have confessed to the crime, while detectives were investigating the matter to find out if the suspects did have the capacity to carry out their threat, whether they were working with other criminals, and if there were other persons they were still torturing psychologically as they did to the Rev. Sister.