How do you hope to overcome the funding challenges of the institute? As a government agency, when you think of funding, you think of budget and monthly allocation, if we depend on them, we will continue to complain. The alternative is for us to find ways of generating funds. By our mandate, we are not a funding   generating organisation, and research is money consuming. We will complete the revival of our drug manufacturing unit which has been down for many years. We plan to strengthen our clinic, and also intend to apply for research grants from international partners. But of course, we will continue to appeal to the government to improve our funding. What are the challenges of developing the herbal medicines industry in Nigeria? Herbal medicines has huge economic potentials. Some of the capsules that Nigerians take as drugs come from China and India, and some of them contain simple things like onions and garlic, they just de-odorize them. The main reason we don’t have a herbal medicines industry in Nigeria is because most people who should be in the pharmaceutical manufacturing industry are not trained to produce herbal medicines. Schools in the country are not training people on the techniques of producing herbal medicines. We learnt on the job. There is also need to create new facilities, and provide requisite equipment and manpower for the herbal medicine industry. We also need a raw materials industry. How long will the herbs in the bush sustain a big company for instance? When traditional herbal practitioners have claims of cures, how does NIPRID work with them? Over the years the board of NIPRID has a traditional herbal practitioner as a statutory member. We also relate with their various associations, and attend their programs. Our doors are also open to any person that has something to offer. We help people meet NAFDAC guidelines but if they need to go further for full registration, and clinical trials, we will give them the bill. When you provide funding, the result is 100% yours, NIPRID has no right or claim to the product. There is the other model where we provide funding. But the risk is that it is going to take as long as it takes NIPRID to find money, it could be four of five years. We then share whatever benefits  comes from that work. How available is NIPRISAN for sufferers of sickle cell disease? At the moment, patients can only obtain NIPRISAN from our institute. It is not available anywhere else. But arrangements are in top gear and I can assure you that in the next few months, NIPRISAN will be back to the market. NIPRISAN was the first drug developed from the scratch in the country, and coincidentally, I was the project coordinator at the developmental stage, and  also transferred the technology to the first company that produced it for availability in pharmacies. However, some issues came up and NIPRD recovered its license. Over the years, we have had a few challenges along commercial rights which tend to slow us down. Is funding part of the challenges militating against the commercialization of the medicine? Yes, in the sense that with adequate funding we will produce more of it within NIPRID. And no because we want to avoid the pit falls of government agencies getting involved in business. Ultimately, we believe that the interest of NIPRSAN, Nigerians, and our other research and development drugs will be best served if the private sector is involved in the commercialization process. One of the challenges which research and development institutes in Nigeria face is that they cannot by their mandate and funding get their own products into the market for every body’s use. NIPRID as an institute took off in 1989, and it is the only research institute in Nigeria and in Africa that is strictly dedicated to research and development of drugs. Over the years, the institute has carved a niche for itself in the areas of plant medicine development. It is also into synthetic medicines and pharmaceutical raw materials like starch. What about other research products like the one developed for Ebola treatment? We have done some clinical work for NIPRIMAL, the anti malaria medicine, but the challenge with the one for Ebola is that you can only test it when there is an epidemic. Secondly, we don’t want to handle something as dangerous as the Ebola virus in an environment that is not qualified for it. The level of laboratory we need is not available now in Africa. We are discussing with other countries like India, United States and Canada that have military grade facilities. We have also done clinical trials on NIPRIMUNE, which boost immunity and can be used as an adjunct in HIV management.