The Joint Health Sector Unions (JOHESU) has directed its members in all Federal Health institutions nationwide to commence indefinite strike from Tuesday midnight April 17, 2018. This followed the Federal Government’s failure to implement agreement signed with the unions. The five health sector unions that make up JOHESU are, Medical and Health Workers Unions of Nigeria (MHWUN), National Association of Nigeria Nurses and Midwives (NANNM), Senior Staff Association of Universities, Teaching Hospitals, Research Institutes and Associated institutions (SSAUTHRIAM), Nigeria Union of Allied Health Professionals (NUAHP) and Non Academic Staff Union of Educational and Associated Institutes (NASU). The unions also placed on red alert ýstates and local government health institutions to continue sensitisation and mobilisation of members for possible entry, should government foot-drag in attending to demand by members. JOHESU had on September 30, 2017 suspended ýa nationwide strike after signing a memorandum of terms of settlement, which was to be implemented within five weeks. Speaking with journalists on the development, chairman of JOHESU, Biobelemoye Josiah said the issues were upward adjustment of CONHESS salary scale, arrears of skipping CONHESS 10, employment of additional health professionals, implementation of court judgement and upward review of retirement age from 60-65. He said it was disheartening that six months after suspending the action, the Federal Government had failed to implement terms of agreements. “JOHESU, as a mature and responsible organisation, gave 21 days notice on 5th February, 2018, in the first instance, to enable the Federal Government do the needful. At the expiration of the 21 days notice, the leadership of JOHESU reconvened to re-appraise the situation on ground and noted the lackadaisical attitude of the Federal Government towards the implementation of the Memorandum of Terms of Settlement signed on 30th September, 2017. “Furtherance with our mantra as peace lovers, who have the interest of the masses at heart, another 30 working days ultimatum was issued to the Federal Government on 5th of March, 2018, to alert the government of the impending nationwide strike. “Consequent upon this, JOHESU has no other choice than to proceed on an indefinite nationwide strike as from midnight of Tuesday 17th April,   ý2018; when the 30 working days is expected to expire”. Josiah appealed to well meaning Nigerians to prevail on government to meet the demand of the unions.