The World Health Organization (WHO) has said that effective leadership and high-level political commitment are important to achieving Universal Health Coverage (UHC) in Nigeria and other countries in the region. In a statement yesterday to commemorate this year’s World Health Day, Matshidiso Moeti, WHO Regional Director for Africa, said adequate and sustained investment in health was necessary for ensuring equitable access to health services. “Universal Health Coverage means ensuring that everyone - no matter where they live or who they are - can access essential quality health services without facing financial hardship. It is a powerful equalizer that ensures #Health for All, enhances health security, reduces poverty and promotes gender equality,” she said. Dr Moeti, in the statement which was read by the WHO Country Representative in Nigeria, Dr. Wondi Alemu, during a news briefing in Abuja, said a lot needs to be done to curb non-communicable diseases and tackle epidemics like Ebola and cholera. “There is also a need to address the challenge of antimicrobial resistance and substandard and falsified medicines,” she said. She said countries must strive to improve health governance and information systems to ensure better regulation, planning and accountability to their communities and partners. Dr Moeti said WHO in the African region was committed to supporting Member States to achieve Universal Health Coverage. “We have developed a framework of actions to assist countries in selecting their own path towards achieving both UHC and the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). We have also developed a flagship programme geared towards providing integrated and holistic support to countries through implementation support, a regional learning programme for UHC and more,” she said. While calling on African leaders to live up to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) pledges they made in 2015, she said WHO will continue to support countries to build stronger, more resilient and responsive health systems through Universal Health Coverage to advance health for all. She said that over the past 70 years, there have been major advances in health and health technology, including life-saving medicines for diseases such as HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, hypertension and diabetes. According to her, in the African region, health outcomes have been improved through strategies such as distributing insecticide-treated nets to prevent malaria, and vaccinating against the human papillomavirus which causes cervical cancer. “Access to treatment and essential services has improved. For the first time, more than half of all people living with HIV in Africa (14 million) have access to life-saving HIV treatment,” she added.