Weekend Magazine: How does one become an opera singer? Abiodun Koya: First, obviously, you have to be talented. You have to have the voice and the gift to be an opera singer. But that isn’t enough. You have to be passionate, dedicated, and understand that it is tasking, and most rigorous. WM: How about the technical aspect? Does one need to go to school? Koya: You have to go to school, work with vocal coaches, stick to some sort of diet, especially around the time you have a performance. For example, you can’t take any dairy product. You are not supposed to take ice cream or any drink that is cold. If possible, refrain from alcohol and definitely avoid smoking. Overall, you have to be really disciplined. It’s the most disciplined genre of music. WM: How old were you when you decided to become an opera singer and for how long have you been at it? Koya: First and foremost, I knew I just wanted to be a singer. I was about five or six years old. I was, of course, exposed to classical music way before then. I was too young, so I didn’t really know, but I responded positively and joyously whenever my father played classical music. He played it all the time. At a point, if classical music wasn’t playing, I would grab him and take him where the stereo was. So, he was like my DJ then. I bugged him a lot to play music for me, and here we are today. WM: What would you say is the difference between opera, and other forms of singing, especially on stage? Koya: It’s a dramatic way of singing. It requires a lot of energy and control of your diaphragm and voice. It requires a lot of training. With other genres you can just wake up from bed and go to sing. For an opera singer, you have to do vocal warm-ups because the vocal cords can be relaxed. It’s like when you want to do something and feel you need to get charged, and so do a work-out or jog. One of the things you also have to do daily, which is very difficult for almost all opera singers, is that you have to exercise vocally for at least thirty minutes a day, wherever you are, just to keep your voice in top shape. So, the voice is like a car that you have parked for three months without starting it. That is the best way I can explain it. You can’t just park a car for that long and then start the engine and drive the car from Abuja to Lagos. WM: Other than classical or opera music, what kind of genre do you sing? Koya: I do folk songs, inspirational, and sometimes even sacred music. I love sacred music a lot. WM: You have performed for some US presidents. Can you please share some of your experiences? Koya: I sang for president Obama and Bush, and I almost sang at Trump’s inauguration. People ask me how that feels. I’m indifferent, so to speak. I consider my voice as a tool to bring some sort of feeling, and healing, to humanity. There are certain emotional and psychological health issues that medicine cannot cure. Medicine cannot cure the soul, only music can. Singing for presidents is nerve-racking, but it feels so good to stand close to them and see these people you see on TV. They usually look different in real-life. WM: Your concert, titled ‘Future Symphony: Days Of The Avenger’ holds this evening at the Transcorp Hilton in Abuja. It’s widely reported that you will mash opera music with sci-fi elements. Why did you choose this unique direction? Koya: I am a weird person. I don’t do regular. I like my mind to be blown away. If you want to keep my attention, regardless of what it is, I like it different and unique. When God gave me this concept, I embraced and liked it. I figured it will be an opportunity to bring a new dimension to the music world and Nigeria. And I will like my guests to be transported differently than what they are used to. I am going to sing a bunch of songs. It’s a classical music concert. WM: How do you think appreciation of opera and classical music can be increased in Nigeria? Koya: I think, by creating awareness. For example, I am planning to have a radio show called ‘Hymnsical’, that will bring to listeners a variety of songs, from Broadway to Jazz, Opera, Pop-Classical, which is totally different, and some hymns. It’s just a variety show for the classical music genre. Once people get to know it, they will embrace it. WM: You mentioned Broadway. How many plays have you been on? Koya: I have done theatre, not necessarily Broadway plays. WM: Which is your favourite to perform? Koya: ‘Madama Butterfly’, because it’s a wonderful story about love and heartbreak. I like it because it has that bitter-sweet element. Plus, the composer, Giacomo Puccini, is one of my favourites. WM: You travel a lot due to your job. What do you miss most about home? Koya: I miss sleeping, and watching TV. I haven’t really watched TV in a long time. The only time I can do both well, is when I am on an international flight. After sleeping and eating, I binge-watch TV. I also like to cook what I want, when I can. WM: You recently dazzled guests at the recent FIFA event where the world cup trophy was unveiled in Abuja. How long did it take you to create your special rendition of the Nigerian National Anthem? Koya: It didn’t take me long at all. It came to me easily. I can do something on the spot. Not to sound boastful, but it’s part of being creative. It comes with being passionate about what you do, and loving it. Also, having an open heart to inspiration and ideas. WM: What should guests expect when they come to your concert this evening? Koya: They should expect to be dazzled and treated to another side of music. They should come with open hearts and prepare to go home with another dimension of experience. Also, they should always be on the look-out for good music. Because they will get it.