The Bring Back Our Girls (BBOG) on Friday marked the fourth year anniversary of the Chibok abduction with a call on the United Nations to deplore all mercenary to bring back the remaining 112 Chibok girls and remaining Dapchi girls who are still in Boko Haram captivity. The group at a well-attended inter-faith program held at the Falomo roundabout also declared that there was need for sustained protests to demand the release of the girls. The letter was addressed to the Director, United Nations Information Centre located on Alfred Rewane Street, Ikoyi, Lagos. The group, led by the BBOG coordinator for Lagos State, Mrs Aisha Muhammed-Oyebode, after a peaceful walk to the UN Information Centre, Ikoyi vowed to continue agitating for the release of the girls and urged the UN to use its wherewithal to facilitate the release of the girls from captivity. "We ask you to mobilise all United Nations agencies, and to join the call on national, regional and global influence and authorities to support and pressure the Nigerian government to bring the nightmare of school abductions, violent extremism and insecurity to an end. "We ask you to use your diplomacy and influence to ensure implementation of the Safe School Declaration, by which Nigeria commits to protecting schools and universities from violence and military use during armed conflict. Raise the issue of the plights of over 1000 children abducted from their schools," the letter reads. Mohammed-Oyebode, said the demand for the release of girls still in captivity is to ensure that they are reunited with their families alive. "The commemoration of the anniversary of Chibok girls in Boko Haram captivity is not mere ritual, nor an annual event that brings people together for merriment, but a gathering of concerned Nigerians who share the pain and who will never sit back to watch Nigeria's children dehumanised by terrorists," she said. Acknowledging that the Chibok girls struggle had become a metaphorical embodiment of the larger struggle against deaths and devastation, Oyebode said: "The recent abduction of school girls from Dapchi serves to highlight the still existing threat to vulnerable people, children and especially girls. It is disheartening that four years after the abduction of the Chibok girls, the circumstances that made crime against humanity possible still exist." While she acknowledged the efforts of the federal government at rescuing the girls, she vowed that the group will remain concerned about issues that bother on the vulnerability of children in the region such as girl-child education, the establishment of safe and secure learning spaces and our crisis of out-of-school children of which female constitute a large disadvantaged quantity. Special prayers were offered by Muslim and Christian clerics and symbolic light-on session rounded the program on Friday evening.