Vice President Yemi Osinbajo has said that any Nigerian who steals the nation’s money will be arrested, prosecuted and jailed. Osinbajo made the statement while answering question from pupils of LEA Nursery and Primary School Life-Camp at the World Book and Copyright Day organised by Rainbow Book Club in conjunction with UNESCO, in Abuja, on Monday. “Those who are corrupt, first we arrest them, we try them in the court and we put them in jail,” he said. Osinbajo, who read few paragraphs to the pupils from the book titled: “The Legend: Dr Nnamdi Azikiwe,” described corruption as a way of stealing money that belongs to everybody. According to him, the money that corrupt persons were stealing could be used to build roads, schools, hospitals and airports among others. He insisted that the solution was to bring all the corrupt people to book in order to teach others a lesson. Speaking earlier, the Founder of Rainbow Book Club, Mrs. Koko Kalango, said the club promotes reading for personal and national development. Kalango said they organized the reading in commemoration of World Book and Copyright Day as well as to show the nation the importance of reading. “We want to show the nation that education is important, reading is important. We need to build human capital if we are to compete favourably in a knowledge-economy. That is why we start also from the young children,” she said. In his remark, the Director General of UNESCO, Ms Audrey Azoulay who was represented by Administrator Professional, Ifeanyi Ajaegbo said that 16 April was chosen to be World Book and Copyright Day because it coincides with the death of two giants of world literature on 23 April 1616. Also in his remark, the Minister of Education, Malam Adamu Adamu, urged pupils to use the gesture to imbibe the spirit of reading culture. Also speaking, the Minister of the Federal Capital Territory, Malam Muhammad Musa Bello applauded the Vice President for taking time to encourage pupils on the importance of reading.