About  100 women have benefited  from the second edition of an entrepreneurship empowerment training organised  by a young female journalist,  Sadat Bibire  in Ilorin,  Kwara state. Speaking  at the event,  Sadat canvassed for the creation of female entrepreneurs to reduce the rate of unemployment amongst women in Nigeria.  Saadat,  who runs the SAAB Foundation based the appeal on the realisation that the Nigerian economy needs more people especially women to be involved in productive engagements that would enhance their income.  She appealed to government  to support initiatives like hers which are targeted  at helping women,  youths and the vulnerable in society saying the NGO was interested  in equipping  participants at the training either with start up capital or the basic materials needed  for their jobs.  Participants who were  drawn  from various local government  areas of the state were trained in basic fashion  designing, hairdressing, make-up,  adore making etc.  She described the programme as part of her passion for women saying she also sees it as part of the way to reduce gender based violence such as rape, domestic violence, social vices and health related issues.  "I decided to start up an organization that’ll help women like me, girls and everyone out there experiencing any form of abuse and can’t speak up, I decided to use my voice for them, create female entrepreneurs and make them their own boss by learning a trade. The world will be a better place if we all can help our neighbors so why not?  "The economy of the state needs more people to be involved in stuff. It’s helping the government in creating jobs and eradicating unemployment amongst the youth. This definitely will boost the economy of the state and put the state on the map out there."  She  urged the youths to be serious and determined. "Determination is all takes to be at the top. Never give up, don’t procrastinate, even though the going gets tough just keep going.  "My appeal to the government is for them to support us more. After the training we will like to give the students funds or materials for the participants to start up and establish themselves" she said.  Also speaking at the event a consultant with Sobi Fm  Mr Nass Abdulkadiri stressed the need of innovation, creativity and multitasking.  He urged participants  to work as a team to change the face of Kwara state and be determined, persevere, to be passionate and not to procrastinate. He also advised them to embrace digital marketing.  Some of the beneficiaries expressed delight in their chosen skills.