A fleeing suspected motorcycle robber and suspected armed robber has died after crashing himself in a ditch at Abule Ijaiye area of Lafenwa in Abeokuta, Ogun State capital. The incident, which occurred on Saturday, at about 4:30p.m., led to the recovery of his gun and the stolen motorcycle. It was gathered that the robber, who pretended as a passenger suddenly brought out a locally made double barrel pistol and asked the rider, one Toyin Ayoade to surrender his bike. While the rider was struggling with him, he shot him on the hand and fled with the motorcycle. The State Command spokesman, Abimbola Oyeyemi, who confirmed the incident said a distress call was immediately made and the people of the community gave the suspect hot chase. “While he was running away with the bike, he fell into a ditch and hit his head on a concrete culvert. He died on the spot,”  he said. Oyeyemi disclosed that one locally made double barrel pistol, two live cartridges and the snatched motorcycle were recovered from him. “The victim has been taken to the hospital by the DPO Lafenwa division SP Mohammed Odunlami and he is responding to treatment,” he added. In a related development, Oyeyemi disclosed that two suspects who specialised in robbing people of their motorcycle and taking such motorcycle to Benin Republic for sale had been arrested. The two suspects - Evans Ajaho, 30 and Isaiah Aigba, 21, both males were arrested at Baagbon village in Odeda Local Government Area of the state last week. He said the duo’s arrest was effected following a distress call made to the DPO Odeda Division CSP Muhammad Baba Suleiman that the suspects have snatched a Bajaj motorcycle at Alabata area at about 6:25P.m. on 25th April 2018. “On the strength of the distress call, the DPO led his men to block all the exit points in the area and the hoodlums were subsequently apprehended with the motorcycle. “On interrogation, the duo confessed to have been in the business of motorcycle theft for quite some time now and that they have standby buyers once they succeeded in taking such bike to Benin republic. “The Commissioner of Police CP Ahmed Iliyasu has directed that the suspects be transferred to FSARS for discreet investigation and prosecution,”  the PPRO said.