The Speaker, Kano State House of Assembly, Alhaji Yusuf Abdullahi Ata, on Monday, explained how he is managing Gandujiyya and Kwankwasiyya disparity among the lawmakers in the house.

Speaking in a programme, Barka da Hantsi, aired by a Kano private FM Freedom Radio, Ata said he managed the differences between supporters of the state Governor, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje and that of Senator Rabi’u Musa Kwankwaso by carrying everybody along.

Ata said, “Whatever comes to the floor of the house, I will make sure that everybody is involved. I always ensure that every member of the house irrespective of which group he belongs to, participated in the affairs of the house. If it is something that warrants discussing with the governor or any other person, I always do that in order to unite the lawmakers and have peace in the house.

“And because I am treating the lawmakers equally irrespective of their differences, the few members of Kwankwasiyya group in the house, have never showed any sign of disrespect or protest a bill that comes from the executive arm of government.”

The speaker added that from inception to date, the 8th Assembly had formulated four laws that bordered on improving healthcare service delivery in the state.

He said the laws include Kano State Health Trust Fund 2017, Kano State Private Institutions Law, Kano State Contributory Health Insurance Law and Kano State Law on the two Ultra Modern hospitals, Muhammadu Buhari Specialist Hospital Giginyu and Paediatrics Hospital Zoo road respectively.

He explained that under the law, Kano State Health Trust Fund Agency had been established and a 5-man member board constituted by the state government.

“The house has already screened the nominated chairman and four members of the board and the governor has approved their appointment. They will be inaugurated within this week,” he said.

He added that according to the law, one per cent of the federal statutory allocation of the 44 local government areas of the state, five per cent of the Internally Generated Revenue (IGR) and any donation or grant received by the state on health would be dedicated to the agency.

He said, “The law provides that 50 per cent of the money will be used for improving healthcare service delivery at Murtala Muhammad Specialist hospital, Abdullahi Wase General Hospital and Sir Muhammad Sanusi General hospital.

“Twenty five (25) per cent will go to School of Nursing, School of Midwifery, School of Health Technology and School of Hygiene. Also 10 per cent will be used in fighting malaria, while five per cent each in fighting drug abuse and sickle cell in the state.”