A House of Representatives committee has asked the Federal Capital Territory Administration (FCTA) to halt the ongoing demolition of some business places. The House Committee on FCT headed by the Deputy Chairman, Sergius Ogun (PDP, Edo) said such business enterprises employ hundreds of Nigerians, who help their respective families. The panel said owners of such businesses must have invested and that their lives depend on the businesses for survival. At a meeting with officials of FCTA in Abuja led by the Permanent Secretary, Chinyenka Oha, the lawmakers faulted the administration for what it called “short notice” to the business owners to vacate their premises. The lawmakers observed that in some cases, the owners of entertainment centres such as lounges and night clubs who petitioned the panel on the issue were not even notified before the demolition of their places of businesses was carried out. Ogun told the FCT officials that the panel received petition sometime last month from some land owners and night clubs/lounges operators, saying the FCTA asked them to shut down their businesses within one month and that some had their places demolished already. He said the meeting was to bring everybody together to resolve the issues, adding that “I came from a business background and I know what it takes to invest in a business.” Speaking, the permanent secretary said the FCTA’s position was informed by the fact that those businesses were done in residential areas, which is against the original master plan of the capital city. “Such places encourage sales of drugs. There’s negative social influence. Their activities are not in tandem with what obtains in other capital cities. “The FCTA has engaged with operators of such places for an understanding. As a matter of fact, we have report from DSS on the negative impact of night clubs in residential areas,” he said. Responding on behalf of other petitioners, Max Eze, the Managing Director of Caramelo, said nobody sells hard drugs in such places and that the allegations by the permanent secretary could not be true. In the end, Ogun asked the FCTA to provide the security reports on the implications of night clubs and the evidence of disturbance, use of drugs, traffic gridlock among others caused by such businesses.