A lifeless body of 3-yr old Khadijah Abubakar Abdullahi who was declared missing for four days was found inside an office at Khairat community school in Walalambe quarters, Nassarawa local government area of Kano state, Kano Chronicle can report. Police preliminary investigation revealed that blood stains were noticed all over her private part, suggesting that the little Khadijah was raped by the yet-to-be identified culprit(s). Kano Chronicle findings revealed that little Khadijah got missing after she and two of her siblings went to Khairat school where her mother is a teacher. The Police Public Relations officer, SP Magaji Musa Majia, who confirmed the incident, said so far nine suspects mostly teachers of the school had been arrested in connection with the murder. Majia assured members of the general public that culprits of the dastardly act would be fished out within four days, as the police was making head way in its investigation. Corroborating with the police, father of the little girl, Malam Abubakar Abdullahi popularly known as IBB, said when he first saw the lifeless body of his daughter, she was naked and in pool of her owned blood that oozed out from her private part and anus as well. He said, “The condition I found my daughter suggested that she was raped. Seeing her in that condition, we could not even touch the lifeless body. “The body has started decomposing, causing an awful odour. We called the police who took the corpse for investigation and later released it to us for burial. Khadijah is dead, but I want justice to be done. It is Khadijah today, only God knows who will be the next target. “There is a need for the authorities concern to do something on this inhumane act in order to safeguard the lives of our children.” Abdullahi recalled that when they discovered that late Khadijah did not return home with her siblings after the school hours, he and other family members embarked on search for the little girl. He explained that they went to several houses of neighbours  and relatives looking for her but could not find her for the first day, adding that “We continued searching for three days with no clue of her whereabouts, only to find her corpse abandoned inside an office in the school on the fourth day. “Her mother is a teacher in the school where her lifeless body was found and late Khadijah and her siblings are students of the same school. On the fateful day she got missing, she was not accompanied to the school by her mother because she (the mother) was sick. “After the school hours, Khadijah’s siblings came back home with the news that she was nowhere to be found after the closure of school around 5:30pm and that was the beginning of our travails,” he narrated.