President  Muhammadu Buhari has called for end to undocumented movements of  persons and animals within the West African sub-region as part of  efforts to address herders-farmers conflicts.

He made this call while declaring open the ECOWAS/Federal Government summit on herders/farmers conflicts in Abuja on Thursday.

The  President who was represented by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo at the  occasion, lamented that many clauses of the ECOWAS protocols on free  movements within the sub-region have not been activated, stressing that  those clauses would have reduced the incidents of clashes between  farmers and herders.

"We  can't continue to tolerate the undocumented movement of persons and  animals in the region", he said. "They must all have certificates."

He  said Nigeria decided to call for the summit to design a uniform plan of  action to tackle the conflicts, following the success achieved through  same method in dealing with the Boko Haram insurgency.

Buhari  who noted that there have always been conflicts between farmers and  herders since the existence of man, stressed that the issue was being  complicated in recent years following the competition for land and water  as a result of climate change. 

He  also said criminals were using the situation to cause havoc in the  region, adding that "we have seen evidence that this situation is being  complicated by the actions of criminal networks who are taking advantage  of the proliferation of illegal weapons and our porus border across the  West African sub-region."

Buhari  therefore, asked for regional cooperation in border management, law  enforcement and in identity management as part of measure to address the  problem.

The  economic implication of these problems are very worrisome, more that  70% of the population of the ECOWAS region makes a living from  agriculture, saying many countries in the region were already struggling  with food security.

Speaking  at the event, the President of ECOWAS Commission Mr. Jean Claude Kassi  Brou who emphasized the need for urgent solution to the herders/farmers  crisis, noted that livestock production plays a key in the economies of  West Africa countries.

"With  more than 60 million heads of cattle, over 160 million small ruminants  and well over 400 million poultry, the Sahel and West Africa stand out  as a recognized livestock producing region," he said.