Lagos State government has described the simulation exercise carried out by the officials of Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) alongside other emergency stakeholders code named “Operation Oko Jasosa” at the early hours of Sunday, April 28, 2018, as a way of reassuring investors and entire residents of Lagos of the preparedness of the state emergency responders to swiftly respond to emergency situations in a very coordinated manner. The Commissioner for Special Duties and Inter-Governmental Relations, Mr. Seye Oladejo who spoke through the Permanent Secretary in the ministry, Dr. Jemilade Longe, disclosed that the exercise shows the capability of the various emergency responders in the state. According to him, it should further convince Lagosians beyond mere promises that Lagos State government places high premium on protection of lives and properties. Public Relations Officer of LASEMA, Adebayo Kehinde in a statement quoted the commissioner. The commissioner said, “Disasters and accidents are things that you cannot predict but for our investors, what the state government is saying is that if for whatever reason there is an accident, they should be rest assured that we have skilled officials, the needed synergy and equipment to combat and surmount such situations. “The implication of this is that our people can now go to sleep without any fear because there is a government that cares for them.” General Manager of LASEMA, Mr. Tiamiyu Adeshina explained that the main rationale behind the entire simulation process was the display of synergy that exists among all those involved in attending to emergency situations. He said, “After this exercise now, LASEMA and other stakeholders involved in this simulation process will go back to the drawing board to reappraise our performances, evaluate the entire rescue operation and design a better way to  handle this type of scenario whenever it happens.” “It is part of the proactive measures we decided to carry out so that we won’t start learning how to combat real accident scenes when very precious lives would be involved.” The General Manager urged residents of the state to always remember the free-toll emergency line of 767 and 112. He said: “Don’t leave anything to chance, take advantage of these free lines and activate the call immediately an emergency is perceived so that swift assistance can come and the degree of injuries or casualties will be very minimal.”