The Chief of the Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar yesterday deployed the Nigerian Air Force (NAF) Special Forces to Gusau, as part of efforts to stop the incessant banditry attacks.  The Air Chief took the action following the recent attack on Bawan Daji community in Anka Local Government Area of Zamfara State where some lives were lost.  In a statement signed by the Director Public Relations and Information, Air Vice Marshal Olatokunbo Adesanya explained that the  NAF Special Forces were trained in asymmetric warfare and airlifted from Kaduna with the NAF C-130 Hercules aircraft .  The Airforce troops are to complement efforts of other security forces on ground to prevent further attack on innocent citizens.  The personnel and other supporting staff would operate from the recently established 207 Quick Response Group in Gusau, where they would reinforce the existing Regiment personnel in the Unit in support of the ongoing Operation SHARAN DAJI in the State.  Air Officer Commanding Special Operations Command, Air Vice Marshal Ismaila Kaita addressing the troops in Gusau  said that the Special Forces would be further deployed to remote areas of Zamfara State, where they would engaged in Internal Security operations.  He therefore further urged them to effectively utilize their experience and training to protect the lives and properties of the people of Zamfara State.  He added that the NAF leadership expects the Special Forces to exhibit the highest standards of professionalism and respect for human rights in discharging their duties.  The statement read in part, "In recent times, the NAF has taken additional measures to enhance its contributions to tackling Internal Security challenges in the country, in fulfilment of its constitutional responsibility.  " In addition to earlier established Quick Response Groups and Wings and the deployment of NAF Special Forces to various states, the NAF recently established Quick Response Wings at Agatu, Doma and Nguroje in Benue, Nasarawa and Taraba States respectively to bring security closer to those in the relatively remote areas".  "Arrangements are also ongoing to establish a new Quick Response Group in Jalingo, Taraba State to compliment  the activities of the 3 new Quick Response Wings". 