Father of Solomon Ukpe who was killed by a soldier attached to Command Secondary School, along Command junction, Kaduna in June, 2017, Andy Ita Ukpe has demanded for the release of the corpse of his son which has been in army custody since the incident happened. Speaking to newsmen on Wednesday in Kaduna, Mr. Andy also demanded for the payment of N700 million as compensation from Nigerian Army in order to take care of the two children left behind by his late son. The 29-year-old deceased, Solomon Ukpe was allegedly shot dead by a private soldier identified as Ocheme Abel while packing sand in front of the school for block making in June 2017. He lamented that his son’s corpse is yet to be released for a befitting burial 10 months after the unfortunate incident saying, “My late son was shot dead by one soldier identified as Ocheme Abel who was among soldiers recruited by the Nigerian Army in 2016.” He added, “The young man, a carpenter and labourer went to pack sand in front of Command Secondary school for block making when the soldier attached to the school challenged him to stop packing the sound which he did. “He tried to explain himself and the soldier pretended to have agreed with him and gave him money to go and by cigarette. But as he turned around to go and get the cigarette, Ocheme shot him from the back killing him instantly. This is the same soldier that is alleged to have been terrorising the women who were farming in the area. “Policemen went to the scene to pick his corpse and deposited at Gwamna Awan hospital. But to our surprise, the Army went and collected the body of my son from the mortuary without notifying me. “They did that under a false personality because when they came and took the body, the paper that enabled them to take the body away read civilian identity. But when I called the contact line that was on the paper, the respondent said he was a goat seller at Tudun Wada.” He said after he contacted the National Human Right Commission (NHRC), he was allowed to see the corpse of his son which had been mutilated. He said he had written several letters to the Chief of Army Staff but there was no response adding that, “If after exploring all available means to resolve the matter amicably, the family would be left with no option than to seek legal redress.” When contacted, Assistant Director, Army Public Relations, 1 Division Nigerian Army, Kaduna, Colonel Muhammad Dole said, “The matter is already with our legal department and I cannot make any comment on the matter.”