A former Senate president, David Mark at the weekend took stock of his 70 years sojourn on earth and renewed his covenant with God to serve him and humanity faithfully. Mark told a gathering in Abuja to commemorate his birthday that he has resolved to serve God and humanity ceaselessly for the rest of his life. Quoted in a statement by his media aide, Paul Mumeh, Mark said, “I will intensify my prayers and do the work of mercy for peace and unity of Nigeria, where genuine friendship and brotherhood, devoid of parochialism reigns. “When I was growing up, I made friends across board devoid of ethnicity, tribe or religion.  And we saw ourselves as brothers and sisters with a common destiny. But what we see today is a celebration of ethnic or religious champions in our national life. “This is not the Nigeria of our dream. We must rise up to re-orientate our people in order to reverse the trend for good. We must see ourselves as one people with a common destiny and purpose.” He expressed optimism that a better Nigeria where everyone is free to live and pursue his or her legitimate ambition in any part of the country without fear of intimidation or molestation is possible “If we see ourselves as brothers and sisters.” President Muhammadu Buhari who spoke through his Special Adviser on National Assembly matters, Senator Ita Enang described Mark as a brave soldier and astute politician, who has made positive impact in the development of the nation. In his remarks, the President of the Senate, Senator Bukola Saraki showered encomiums on his predecessor for the foundation he laid in the Senate as well as his contributions to national development. Mark’s classmate, General Alwali Kazir who spoke on behalf of Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) Course 3 Alumni Association commended Mark for his relentless and unblemished service to the nation. Earlier, the chairmen of the occasion, General T. Y. Danjuma noted the indomitable spirit of Mark, which he said was needed to navigate through the murky political water in Nigeria.