Senator Dino Melaye (Kogi West) stole the show yesterday when he arrived at the venue of the eighth day prayers held for the late Deputy Majority Leader of the House of Representatives, Umar Buba Jibril. Melaye who arrived the venue at Kabawa Primary School, Lokoja, in company of the Senate President, Bukola Saraki, and other National Assembly members, was welcomed by his constituents and other well-wishers with a loud ovation as “Sai Dino” rented the air. This reporter who was at the event reports that Melaye was actually escorted by policemen. There was equally a retinue of policemen at the event, but they did not arrest the “wanted” senator. Dino’s arrival at the event caused wild jubilation as his crowd of supporters and well-wishers flocked around him to hail and exchange pleasantries with him. The senator has been fighting for the soul of his seat since a recall process was initiated against him, allegedly by his constituents, and was recently declared wanted by the Nigeria Police. The police had equally asked Interpol to place him (Melaye) on red alert on account of alleged involvement in gunrunning. Meanwhile, the prayers for late Buba attracted top politicians from the ruling APC, the opposition PDP, members of the National Assembly and others from within and outside Kogi State. Also at the prayers were the Kogi State Deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba, a former Kogi State Governor, Idris Wada, Sen. Tunde Ogbeha, a former Kogi State Deputy Governor, Yomi Awoniyi, Reps. Majority Leader, Femi Gbajabiamila, Reps. Hassan Omale, Kabiru Ajana, Sunday Karimi, James Abiodun Faleke, Emma Egwu, among others. Many of the members who spoke extolled the good qualities of late Buba, who they described as a “grassroots politician and mobiliser” that worked for the interest of the ordinary people during his three terms in the House of Representatives. Former Gov. Idris Wada described Buba’s death as a major loss to Kogi politics, adding that the deceased was a vibrant politician who had the interest of the people at heart.