A House of Representatives ad-hoc committee indicted the Attorney General of the Federation (AGF) and Minister of Justice, Abubakar Malami, for his role in the reinstatement of Abdulrasheed Maina, who was dismissed from service over pension fund fraud.

Maina, former chairman of the Pension Reform Task Team (PRTT), was dismissed in 2013 and subsequently declared wanted by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) when he failed to appear for questioning.

However, the House panel, which investigated the controversial circumstances in which Maina was promoted and reinstated into the service, said the Attorney General was the “architect” of the crisis.

Here are the main highlights of the report:


1. Malami met with Maina in Dubai knowing full well that the ex-pension task force boss was a wanted person. 

2. The report said there was an undue interference and pressure on the Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) from Malami on the matter.

3. Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) erred by taking directive from the Attorney General to recommend Maina’s reinstatement in contravention of Section 158 of the constitution.

4. The AGF’s actions on the reinstatement contravened Section 158 of the 1999 constitution, the panel said in its 13-page report.

5. The panel recommended that the AGF should be reprimanded and cautioned.

6. Similarly, the panel said it found the Permanent Secretary in the ministry of interior, Engr Abubakar Magaji, wanting for his role in documenting Maina following the purported reinstatement.

7. It equally noted the insistence of the Head of Service, Mrs Winifred Oyo-Ita, in opposing Maina’s reinstatement and that the right thing should be done.

8. The report said the Nigeria Immigration Service had no role in Maina’s disappearance, his return into the country and his reinstatement into the civil service.

9. The Independent Corrupt Practices and other related Offences Commission (ICPC) is equally cleared by the report.

10. But the report noted that the police were not forthcoming with information regarding issue.