Startling revelations have emerged regarding the discoveries made by operatives of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) during a raid on an Abuja apartment belonging to a former chairman of the Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) Dr Ngozi Olejeme. Olejeme, who was deputy chairman, finance committee of the Goodluck Jonathan campaign organization in 2015 has been having running battle with the EFCC over alleged embezzlement and diversion of public funds. A highly placed source within the EFCC, who confirmed the raid reportedly carried out last Saturday revealed that various incriminating documents, including multiple international passports allegedly obtained by Dr Olejeme in her bid to evade arrest were found. Although a family source was quoted as saying that the EFCC had refused to tender any invitation letter and warrant of arrest during the operation that lasted about 12 hours, our source who wouldn’t want to be named due to the sensitive nature of the matter, said indeed a search was conducted and a Ghanaian International Passport with number H 2619481 in the name of one Amartey Doris as well as an International Drivers’ License Permit with No. IDP-0008462 also in the name of Amartey Doris all bearing the pictures of Ngozi Olejeme were recovered. Also recovered, according to our source, was one ECOWAS Certificate with number: 232/270052 in the name of one Osakwe Justina Otito bearing the picture of Ngozi Olojeme was recovered in addition to one Nigerian Diplomatic Passport with number: F-50000049 in the name of Olejeme Juliet Ngozi. According to the EFCC source, investigation carried out so far revealed that the bearer of the documents was Mrs Ngozi Olejeme, who was chairman of the NSTIF from 2009-2015 and also served as deputy chairman finance committee of the Jonathan presidential campaign committee during the 2015 polls. She was also said to have vied for the governorship of Delta State on the platform of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) during the 2015 elections. Olejeme, who was declared wanted in 2017, was initially alleged to have diverted the sum of N69 billion in public funds, while serving as board chairman of the NSITF between 2011 and 2015. The allegation was contained in a petition forwarded to the EFCC and signed by one Hassan Mohammed Garba through the DSS on December 17, 2015 as well as another petition by a concerned staff of the NSITF, Daba Mommoh on October 8, 2015. Investigations by the EFCC into the petitions was said to have revealed that several funds were diverted from the account of the NSITF to several individuals and corporate accounts, which were allegedly paid to Bureau de Change and companies with the dollar equivalent of over N48 million. The amounts were said to have been delivered in cash by Bureau de Change owners to First Bank officials, who finally conveyed same to the suspect and other NSITF officials even as 37 choice properties were said to have been recovered from her. EFCC spokesman, Wilson Uwujaren said, Mrs Olejeme had been invited by the commission but due to her ill health, she was yet to report to their Enugu office.