You were a member of the NPN during the Second Republic; how was it funded? What actually happened was that there were five different political parties. You know there was a gap of 13 years for any democratic exercise. So, naturally, most of the people who formed various political parties funded them because there was no real structure on how to raise money. But in our own party, the NPN, I was the one funding it because I discovered that we didn’t have money; myself and the late Usman Dantata. I said that if we were going to go on a serious business, we had to organise ourselves to raise money. I told the late Usman Amaka that we would go to Kano. His father, Sanusi Dantata, may his soul rest in peace, was the state chairman of the NPN. We went to Kano in the evening, but we first went to his uncle, Alhaji Aminu Dantata and told him that our mission was to raise money. But he said we should go to the chairman. So we went to the chairman, who happened to be Usman’s father, and told him that we were there to raise money for our party. He said we should come the following day after Asr prayers, that’s after 4 O’clock.  We met at his guest house in Nasarawa and he had informed most of the well-to-do in Kano. I explained to them that in every civilised society, business people always funded political parties to protect their interest. I told them that that was why we were there. I told them that the NPN would take care of their interests. There and then we raised N1.8 million. We then sent a message to the late Malam Mai Deribe and the rest of his colleagues, that we would be coming the following day. We went there and they all came to the airport to receive us. We were lodged at Malam Mai Deribe’s place. He brought a cheque of N750, 000; that means we had raised about N2.5 million. We came back to Lagos and I called the late Moshood Abiola on phone and said we were looking for money for the party. He always respected me like his big brother, so he came and brought N250, 000. I also called Alex Ibru, who was my friend, and he said he would talk to his brother, Mike. After their meeting, they gave us N250, 000. That means we raised about N3 million within three days. I also called the late Chief Akin Olugbode and told him we were looking for money and he sent me N100, 000. Alhaji Bagudu Bida also sent a draft of N100,000. So within a short time we raised over N3 million. After we formed a government, I brought the idea that we had to organise ourselves properly to have a means of raising money. We pleaded with the government to inform us of any big contract they would give. We formed a committee with people like Malam Ibrahim Damchida, who was permanent secretary; Philip Asiodu, Chief Bayo Koku, Chief Ogochukwu. During the Shagari regime they normally had what we called caucus meeting every Monday, where they would review government activities. These meetings normally took place in Shagari’s place.  He chaired the meeting because he was the head of government. But the composition included the national chairman of the party, Adisa Akinloye; two national deputies, and the assistant secretary. They were always in that meeting. It was a kind of joint government between us and the National People’s Party (NPP). The speaker was from the NPP; the president of the Senate was from the NPN. Idris Kuta was the deputy speaker, and four of his colleagues usually attended that meeting.  Senate President Joseph Wayas and Senator Olusola Saraki, who was the chairman of the majority, and some of their colleagues, were also members of that committee. They normally reviewed what they had done within the previous week. It was from there that we knew the companies that were given contracts. We were trustees but not part of the Board. We used to hold our meetings with the late Dr. Alex Ekwueme who happened to be the vice president. He would brief us on what happened; hence we knew what was going on.  We tried to do things in a decent way. Some of the construction companies belonged to the conservatives and they had their way of getting money. That was how we used to get our money. We did not allow governors to interfere with the setup of the party. In fact, no governor could go and see President Shehu Shagari straight. They had to go through the national chairman of the party, Adisa Akinloye and Uba Ahmed who was the secretary.  And the governor had to tell them exactly why he wanted to see Shagari. However, the governors could see Shagari during their security meetings. We were properly organised. At a time, we started thinking of forming a company so that we would be trading to make money. I don’t know how they make their money now. What is your take on how the PDP allegedly raised money for the 2015 general elections? In the first place, I cannot understand why a governor of a state would talk on situations of the Federal Government. As I told you, there was strict discipline in the NPN. When we went for party meetings, Shagari would be in attendance, but when they went for their caucus meetings, the president was the chairman. Everything was orderly. But now, I hear them saying they don’t have money, so state governments should come to their rescue. When you start involving state governors, it means there is no discipline.  State governments are supposed to be answerable to the Federal Government because they get their money from there. So why can’t you go to the source? In our time, nobody claimed that the party belonged to him. Apparently, it was Obasanjo who came and claimed that the president was the leader of the party. It is not in the constitution of any existing democratic government. You can’t be a leader and the head of government at the same time. What did you normally do with the money you raised for your party in those days? The party maintained its staff in all the states because we had our sources of income. If they gave you a contract of N100million, we knew it was from our party. That was how we were getting our money neatly. Did you sponsor candidates during elections? No!  A candidate is a private individual who has his ambition, but there were certain things the party had to finance, such as buying vehicles. We financed our activities. But if you decided to bribe people in order to win election, that’s your own problem.