The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Wednesday said that it will go on with the recall process of Senator Dino Melaye representing Kogi West District at the National Assembly as scheduled on its timetable.

INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner in Kogi State, Prof James Apam, at a stakeholders meeting in Lokoja, said verification of signatures which is the first in the line up of activities for the recall process will be done this Saturday April 28.

He said the verification exercise will hold in 560 polling units spread across the seven local government areas in the Kogi West Senatorial District while the outcome of the exercise will be done on April 29 at the INEC LGA Office in Lokoja. 

Prof Afam said the verification will commence at 8am and end at 2pm in the various polling units, adding that only those who signed the petition earlier are expected to turn up at the polling units for the verification. 

"We have concluded all arrangements in line with our schedule of activities and are set for the exercise. The ad-hoc staff have been trained at the state and local government levels and materials procured and sent to the Registration Area Centres ready for movement to the polling units on the day verification", he said. 

He urged the people to conduct themselves in orderly manner, assuring that the exercise will be free, fair and credible. 

On his part, the INEC's National Electoral Commissioner in charge of Kogi, Kwara and Nasarawa states, Mallam Mohammed Haruna said the commission has no special interest in whoever wins or loses at the end of the recall.

He said the Commission is carrying out the exercise as mandated by the Electoral Act and would ensure credibility of the entire exercise. 

Kogi State Commissioner of Police, Mr Ali Janga assured of adequate security for the recall exercise, adding that over 1,000 policemen would be deployed for the exercise. 

Janga who was represented by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of operations, DCP Monday Kuryas warn those that plan to foment trouble to steer clear of the polling units. 

Various stakeholders who spoke during the meeting called on INEC to act as an unbiased umpire in the entire process so that the credibility and integrity of the exercise would not be in doubt.