A 39- year-old wife and mother of two, Mrs. Abiola Adetunji yesterday told an Abeokuta Customary Grade II Court, sitting at Ake how her husband, Kehinde Adetunji’s passion for Indian hemp smoking was affecting her children, hence her resolve to terminate the 20 years relationship. Abiola, whose husband refused to show up for the third time before the court had the relationship dissolved by the President of the Court, Chief Olalekan Akande. The mother of two, Oluwasegun 19, and Opeyemi 17, both males, lamented that she had to leave her matrimonial home because of the incessant hemp smoking habit of Kehinde. “He smokes mostly in the night. Sometimes, he would lock us all in one room and started smoking hemp. There is nothing we can do; otherwise, it will result into another round of beating. I cannot just continue with such relationship. It is affecting me and my children. Sometimes, we cough ceaselessly and he will continue just like that,” Abiola told the Court. Abiola in her statement of claim, said the relationship had broken irretrievably as a result of no care for the children with incessant beating, which has defied family intervention. As such, Mrs Adetunji said she was no longer interested in the relationship. She however, prayed for the custody of the two children. Akande in his ruling dissolved the relationship. “As he, Kehinde Adeyinka failed to come to the court on two separate times, February 16 and March 6 respectively, it seems he is no longer interested in the relationship too. I hereby set aside the 20- year- old relationship. Custody of the children is hereby given to the plaintiff, as they are already with her, but, the defendant is free to see them under atmosphere of peace,”  the judge said. He said: “You are free to marry any man of your choice again and the defendant is warned not to harass or molest you either at your place of work or else.  In case this happens, you can take this Judgment to the nearest police station for necessary action,” Akande declared.