The remains of Senator Mustapha Bukar has been buried at Gabas cemetery after a funeral prayer held at the Kangiwa Square, at the Palace of the Emir of Daura, Umar Faruk. The prayer was led by the Chief Imam of Daura, Imam Salisu Rabiu, with Governor Aminu Masari, his Deputy Mannir Yakubu, Senate Leader Ahmed Lawal in attendance. The Emir of Daura, Umar Faruk, former ministers and senators and hundreds of sympathisers graced the prayers. The corpse was airlifted to Katsina before a road trip to Daura, his hometown for the funeral prayers, which was held at about 5.55pm. He was interned at about 6.10 pm. In his condolence, Governor Masari expressed sadness over the death of the senator, who was the Madawakin Daura. He described it as a sad and painful loss for Katsina State in particular and the nation in general. Governor Masari in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi described late Senator Mustafa, as a worthy son and representative of Katsina State, who had given a good account of himself in the Senate. Masari prayed to Allah to forgive him all his shortcomings, grant his soul eternal rest, and grant the bereaved the fortitude to bear the loss. Bukar’s last assignment in Senate The last major assignment of the late Senator Bukar was on March 8, this year when two of his bills scaled second reading during plenary session. Bukar died in Abuja yesterday following an illness at the age of 63. He read the lead debate on the two bills during a plenary session presided over by Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu. The bills are the Nigerian building and road research institute and a bill to establish the Federal Polytechnic Daura. Deaths sequence in Senate Bukar was the third senator to die in the 8th Senate, after Senator Malam Ali Wakili of the Bauchi South Senatorial district and Isiaka Adeleke from Osun State. Before the inauguration of the Senate, Senator Ahmed Zannah who had won the election for Borno Central Senatorial district died in May 2015. Saraki, Ekweremadu mourn Bukar Senate President Bukola Saraki and his deputy, Ike Ekweremadu have expressed sorrow over the death of Senator Bukar. In a statement by his Special Adviser, Media and Publicity, Yusuph Olaniyonu, Saraki described the death of Senator Bukar as one too many coming a few weeks after the lost Senator Ali Wakili. Buhari mourns Senator Bukar President Muhammadu Buhari has also commiserated with the government and people of Katsina State and the National Assembly on the death of Senator Bukar. Buhari, in a statement by his Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity Malam Garba Shehu, described the senator’s death as a “great loss to Nigeria’s democracy and the engineering profession.’’ The president prayed that Allah bless and forgive the soul of the deceased.