The acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) Ibrahim Magu has said that nothing can stop his commission from fighting corruption in the country to a standstill. Mr Magu, who spoke with journalists in Abuja yesterday after the opening ceremony of the retreat organised by the Bureau of Public Procurement (BPP) for the Chief Executive Officers of government agencies, also said the fight against corruption is not selective. “We are unrelenting in our fight against corruption and nothing can stop us from defeating it. I repeat: nothing can stop us from fighting it to standstill”, he said. The anti-corruption commission boss said though corruption is fighting back vigorously, the EFFC is having the upper hand and will soon defeat it and those aiding it. According to Mr Magu, the EFFC isn’t fighting corruption selectively but only working within the realm of rule of law. He called on every honest Nigerian to join in the fight against corruption in order to rescue the country from corrupt individuals holding it to ransom. He said: “I am assuring you we will win because we are not fighting corruption as an individual or an agency, many Nigerians are behind us and we call on other honest Nigerians to join us to fight corruption together.” Speaking earlier during the opening ceremony, the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Mr Boss Gida Mustapha, said the retreat was organised to address all identified inadequacies observed in the implementation of 2017 budget with a view to enhancing the process within the instrument of the Public Procurement Act 2007. Mustapha, who was represented by a  Permanent Secretary at the SGF’s office, Mr Olusegun Adekunle, warned that no government agency must do business with any government contractor without proper registration on the national database hosted by the BPP. He added that, “government will not hesitate to deal with agencies that are yet to submit their procurement plans and procurement records of the previous year and current year (2017 and 2018) respectively.” He also warned that any CEO who defaults or colludes with contractors or is found to side-line the public procurement process, thereby acting contrary to the provisions of the PPA, 2007, would be sanctioned.