As a means of fighting obesity and encouraging healthy living among Nigerians, the Edmark Group of Companies is promoting weight loss through business opportunities. In an event tagged Edmark Expo 2018, jointly held with P4 Lose to Win Grand Finals in Abuja last week, the company said it would continue to promote weight loss among Nigerians through its products. The event was attended by participants from the 36 states of the federation and the Federal Capital Territory (FCT). This, they said, became necessary in order to help victims of obesity regain their health. The company also used the occasion to showcase the business opportunities they offer, which they said would help Nigerians to maintain good health through proper weight loss. So far, it is said that Edmark has helped 1,300 people to lose more than 12,000 kilograms of excess weight collectively. Edmark Expo is also one of the ways the company assists its independent distributors to expand their businesses, locally and internationally. The company’s weight loss initiative is also meant to encourage Nigerians with entrepreneurial drive to turn their conditions into business opportunities. Also during the event, participants in a weight loss challenge were rewarded for discipline, which resulted in achieving the required healthy body index. A P4 Ambassador is crowned when a contestant achieves an ideal healthy body index within the stipulated 90 days. During the 90-day challenge, Ms. Esther Nwokedi stood out as the contestant who lost the highest amount of weight. Other winners were also crowned. Participants in the one-day event also used the opportunity to seek answers to various challenges facing entrepreneurs in Nigeria. The company introduced an online portal where distributors can easily place orders of products of their choice. One of the participants, Hajiya  Asha Halilu, who said she had used Edmark products for over a decade, added that she also gained financial independence as she reduced her weight from 184kg to less than 80kg within three months. Some of the participants also called for the subsidization of Edmark products so that average Nigerians can afford it. Edmark has market presence in over 25 countries and is involved in various business interests, including manufacturing, export, distribution and real estate development.