Turbans are headgears worn by many categories of traditional title holders in the north to symbolise status or class. Historically turbans are associated with the Arabs especially the Bedouins who dwell in the desert. It part of their attire against the dusty and hot weather of the desert. It also provided a cover against the sun and prevents dust particles entering their nostrils, ears or mouth. And because of its proximity to the desert area, the history of wearing turbans in Northern Nigeria is directly linked with contacts with Arabs and the coming of Islam. It is not uncommon on the streets of the north to see people riding horses with turbans during festivities and in recent times after weddings especially in places like Bauchi where horse-riding is fast becoming popular. It also has a great significance in the royal circle because any princes and princess hardly go out without wearing one. However, the styles, appearances and colours differ from one place to another because most of the emirates have some unique styles especially for the emirs who are the custodians of cultural. In Bauchi Emirate, their style of turbans has a unique feature of its own. From the emir to the palace guards, the king makers and other traditional title holders, the turban is not only a headgear, but part of everyday life within or outside the palace. The present Emir of Bauchi, Dr Rilwanu Suleiman Adamu wears the turban like of his late father, Emir Sulemanu Adamu and his forefathers. According to Wakilin Tarihin Bauchi, Alhaji Ado Dan Rimi Garba, the turban symbolises the name of Allah. He said what is worn round the cap was the “Kuri”, “Kunne” or “ear” and the long suspended part called “Azba”,  “La” or “Lallan” which completes the word “Allah” in Arabic,” he said. Dan Rimi Garba who also heads the Center for History, Research, Documentation and Royal Gallery of the emirate said “There are many categories of people that wear turbans of different sizes and colours. In Bauchi, His Royal Highness, the emir wears a one ‘ear’ medium sized turban and covers his mouth with the “Amawali.” According to him, the reason why the emir covers his mouth with the “Amawali” is that he doesn’t speak frequently. He only speaks when it is necessary and usually removes the “Amawali” if he wants to talk. He explained that the emir and every title holder in Bauchi wear one-eared turban and anybody that wears two-eared turban is only borrowing the style of other places. “The emir’s turban is always big as emphasised by Sheikh Usman Bin Fodio. Its width is one ‘Zira’i’ and its length is seven ‘Zira’is’,” he said. According to him, king makers that include Wambai, Galadima, Madaki, Sarkin Yaki, Ajiya and Imam also wear the same type of turban as the emir, but they put a straw hat at the top of theirs. He added that, Khadis or the Judges also wear the same style with the emir but don’t cover their mouths with the “Amawali” because being judges, they speak frequently. Dan Rimi Garba, however, pointed out that the Khadis also have another type of turban called “Abu Ranaj” which was introduced around 1968 when the Penal Code was introduced. According to him, “Abu Ranaj” was a Sudanese Judge and was the first “Grand Khadi” who introduced the type of turban from his country. “So, being a Judge (Khadi), his style of turban was adopted by our Khadis and some Islamic scholars. The turban was unique because it is light and worn only around the cap and the ‘Azba’ is suspended along the right shoulder or at the back in very rare occasions,” he noted. The palace historian said that palace guards (Dogarai), the warriors, courtiers and praise singers have their types and colours of turbans too. He explained that the Dogarai wear red turbans, clothes and green or all red in some places with their leader wearing a larger turban. On the other hand, he said warriors wear black turban which signifies their military status and readiness for battle in the olden times and the style is still maintained. According to him, the material for the warriors turban is twisted like rope while putting it round the cap to give it an appearance called “Goshin Kure” to appear big and intimidating like a big metal helmet. They also wear red on rare occasions and the emir also wears black when he goes out for war in days gone by. He said palace praise singers also dress like the royals because the emir gives them clothing gifts including turbans. “They wore full turbans but don’t cover their mouths because they are singers and talk a lot. They also have roles and traditional titles related to their profession given to them by the emir and are almost always at the palace shower accolades on the emir, his councillors, other traditional title holders and visitors,” he added. On the whole the uniqueness of the turbans of Bauchi is so apt that whenever it is worn, the spendour cannot be overlooked.