A 25-year-old man has allegedly committed suicide in Ilorin after losing out in a betting over expected result of an European Champions’ League match. The incident was said to have occurred in  Oko-Erin area of the town after the return leg match between FC Barcelona of Spain and AS Roma of Italy played in Italy. The deceased, whose name could not be ascertained as at the time of filing this report, was allegedly to have engaged in a betting with someone else using a motorcycle in his possession for the bet. He was said to have bet that  Barcelona who were leading by 4-1 in the first leg played at Nou Camp, Spain would maintain lead at end of the return leg and through to the semi-final of the championship. However, the match turned out to be 3-0 in favour of AS Roma making the aggregate result to be 4-4 with Roma qualifying for the semi-final at the expense of Barcelona by virtue of away goals rule. The result made the deceased to lose the motorcycle to his opponent in the bet as the opponent reportedly smiled home with the bike from the viewing centre at the night immediately after the match. The man was said to be sobered with the loss of the motorcycle. While some claimed he used the bike for commercial purposes and that it was his main source of livelihood others said the bike belonged to someone else. It was learnt that not being able to recover from the trauma, the man resorted to committing suicide by hanging himself. An eyewitness who said not many people were aware of the incident disclosed that the development devastated the deceased kinsmen in the area who lamented over the man’s action. Spokesman of Kwara state Police command, Ajayi Okasanmi who confirmed the suicide however said it was not in connection with match betting. Okasanmi explained that report with him indicated that the man committed the suicide because of huge debt hanging on his neck saying "the man was said to have incurred debt here and there." He said the deceased took his live by hanging himself on a ceiling fan in his apartment.