Some traditional worshippers on Friday engaged government's demolition team in a hot argument as the Ekiti State Government continued its ongoing demolition exercise in Ado-Ekiti. The demolition exercise took a dangerous dimension today when the bulldozers returned to continue the demolition of structures located close to the two shrines and two sacred trees and other structures directly adjacent the palace of Ewi of Ado Ekiti, Oba Rufus Adeyemo. The names of the two shrines were given as that of "Ogun" and "Ejeye Oka Ere", located within the premises of the Arowa of Ado-Ekiti's court. The state government had yesterday made good its vow not to yield to pressure by the traditional institution in the ancient city to stop the demolition. It would be recalled that the monarch and Governor Ayodele Fayose had recently engaged in a hot altercation over the current demolition of houses following complaints from those affected by the exercise. It was gathered that no fewer than 10 houses were demolished on Thursday and a total of seven tombs marked for exhumation. Our correspondent gathered that as at Thursday, no fewer than four of the corpses had been exhumed while the remaining were awaiting action. Eye witnesses said when it dawn on residents of the area, especially the adherents of the deities, they began mounting resistance to ensure they were not pulled down. To save the situation from degenerating into a crisis, armed security men were immediately drafted to the area, including the entrance to the palace of the Ewi, to prevent breakdown of law and order. It was learnt that the protest eventually led to temporary suspension of work on the shrines but four corpses had reportedly been exhumed and relocated as at the time of filing this report. A family member of one of the corpses who pleaded not to be quoted said the compensation paid by the government did not touch on displacement of corpses or dismantling of shrines. The state government had last month, claimed it had  paid a total of N400m as compensation to people whose houses were demolished across the state but was silent on those whose property were to be demolished newly. The Commissioner for Lands and Urban Development, Mr. Tayelolu Otitoju who disclosed the amount, said that the exercise did not affect Ado-Ekiti alone, and that more than 300 houses had so far been demolished under the exercise in Ado-Ekiti, Ikere-Ekiti, Efon-Alaaye, Omuo-Ekiti,  Ise-Ekiti, Emure-Ekiti and Ijero-Ekiti, among other major towns.