As political activities towards the 2019 general elections continue to gather momentum, ageing politicians in Kano State are working hard to put their sons in positions of authority. Daily Trust on Sunday reports.  As the 2019 general elections draw closer, some old-time politicians from the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) and the opposition Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) have started bringing their children on board to contest for various political posts come 2019. So far, seven prominent politicians - a former Kano State governor and now Senator Ibrahim Kabiru Gaya; current Minister of Interior, General Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau (retired); Ambassador Aminu Wali; Alhaji Farouk Iya; Alhaji Nasiru Aliko Koki and Alhaji Bashir Ibrahim Gwammaja - have brought out their children to contest in next year’s general elections. Daily Trust on Sunday gathered that Alhaji Sadiq Aminu Wali is set to challenge the incumbent governor of the state, Dr Abdullahi Umar Ganduje on the platform of the PDP while Alhaji Anas Ibrahim Kabiru Gaya is preparing to contest for the House of Representatives position (Gaya/Ajingi/Albasu federal constituency). Also, Alhaji Nafi’u Danladi Sankara and Alhaji Aminu Bashir Ibrahim Gwammaja will vie for the House of Representatives positions for Tarauni and Dala federal constituencies under the ruling APC, respectively. Alhaji Hamza Farouk Iya is set to contest for the House of Representatives, Tarauni federal constituency under the PDP, while Alhaji Bashir Nasiru Aliko Koki and Alhaji Shamsuddeen Abdulrahman Bello Dambazau will run for House of Representatives for Takai/Sumaila and Dala federal constituencies under the APC. It was observed  that although the ambitions of the prospective contenders does not in any way violet  the Nigerian constitution and the constitutions of the two major political parties, the development is generating debate among the political class in the state. Some politicians in the state, who spoke to Daily Trust on Sunday on the matter, have come up with divergent views. While some opposed the new trend, others viewed it as a step towards strengthening the nation’s democracy. Alhaji Yusuf Ado Kibiya was a commissioner for land during the tenure of former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso.  He said although it’s not constitutionally wrong for anybody who meets the requirements to contest for any political post to go for it, the emerging trend of ‘hereditary politics’ would not add any value to the nation’s democracy and governance. Kibiya said, “It is unfortunate that people nowadays are not looking at the qualities of candidates who will deliver when elected into political offices; rather, they will encourage their children to contest, even if they are not the best candidates. As a major player, I think it would be appropriate to advise your son to forget about his ambition if he is not fit for it. There is nothing bad in that, but the thing is that the political trend of this country has been turned into a business venture, where politicians can invest and make profits without recourse to the commitment of the common man. “Unfortunately, it is gradually being turned into heredity. If you compare this trend with that of the era of the late Aminu Kano and others, who were talking about nation building and the development of the common man, you would discover that they were in politics not to make money. So, to me, the emerging trend of hereditary politics is bad because it is gradually discouraging good hands from participating in politics. It is not really helping the country; and unless we stop it, it will continue to destroy our democracy. So, based on these realities on ground, it is left for the people to decide what they should do to address the problem.” According to Alhaji Danazumi Gwarzo, a former commissioner for environment,  there are protocols, ethics and tradition in everything. He noted that politics was not heredity. “If we are to go by this trend, it means the majority will continue to serve the few in the country, which should not be like that in the actual sense. Religiously, it is a bad trend to some extent because what it is teaching us is that the leadership is being restricted to some few individuals. In my opinion, this particular trend has a strong link with politics of godfatherism, which always produces bad leaders, encourages bad leadership and always goes against election of leaders by merit,” he said. The chairman of the PDP in the state, Senator Mas’ud El-Jibril Doguwa, confirmed that the party was aware of the  interest of Alhaji Hamza Faruk Iya and Alhaji Sadiq Aminu Wali. He noted that the former had already tendered a letter of notification to the party’s leadership. “To the knowledge of the party, these are the only people that have so far indicated interest in the 2019 general elections. What is very clear is that every Nigerian, provided he meets the requirements, has the right to contest for any post because neither the PDP constitution nor that of the Federal Republic of Nigeria bars Nigerians from contesting for  any political office, provided they meet the laid down requirements, which include age, qualification, nationality and membership of a political party, among others,’’ he said. He, however, added that it’s normal for some people to raise questions because politics is not heredity. “If we go back to history, people like the late Malam Aminu Kano, Muhammadu Abubakar Rimi and Alhaji Sabo Bakin Zoo did not do something like that during their time. That is why some people are opposing it. “However, if we look at it from another perspective, things are always changing, including people’s attitudes. Therefore, the young generations need the elders to guide them in their political undertakings. Take for instance what happened in Kano, Zamfara, Niger, Kaduna, Sokoto and Kebbi states, where some former governors  anointed their deputies and political associates successors, but in the end they betrayed them. If these governors would be given another chance to choose candidates, I am sure they will bring their children,” he said. An APC chieftain in the state, who preferred to be anonymous, said the new trend would not augur well for the nation’s democracy. He said the trend started since 2015 and might be glaring in 2019 as many politicians had joined. “I was also a victim of this bad trend in 2015. I contested but Ambassador Aminu Wali used his influence and replaced me with his candidate. Wali also chased Zakari Wali away in Municipal Local Government and put his candidate in his place. So this trend will definitely cripple our democracy because it is discouraging the good hands from joining politics because even if they contest, the elders among the politicians would use their influence to secure the positions for their children,” he recalled. He lamented that the most unfortunate thing was that the children of the elite would never accord any value to any political office they secured through the influence of their fathers because they know it was not their efforts. “Politics is not a traditional institution for someone to bring his son to take over from him. Everybody should be allowed to contest freely. If your popularity earns you a position, fine, if not, then one should find out why he failed,” he concluded. On his part, the public relations officer of the PDP in the state, Alhaji Musa Danbirni, said there was nothing wrong if a father decided to support his son to contest for a political position. “There is nothing wrong if a father decides to bring his son to contest in a political party where he is a member.  A father and his entire children can stay in a party if they decided to do so; the constitution does not stop them from doing this.”