I have a friend who has been married for four years and has not conceived. Her husband told me it was toilet infection which they had been treating with traditional medicine.  Recently she was diagnosed with fibroid. – Williams, Abuja. First we are to know the size of the fibroid. If it’s big enough to be felt through the abdomen, then there may be need for surgery. But before then, laboratory and radiological tests must be conducted. This includes HSG and also sperm fluid analysis. Treating toilet infection is not the solution. Let me use this opportunity again to explain that toilet infection is not a cause of infertility. So many people have wasted money and time on treatment of toilet infection instead of looking for the causes of infertility. Tell them to see a gynaecologist. I am four months pregnant and had cerclage cervical stitch two weeks ago. When can I start to have sex with my spouse? He has been eager to start but I’m afraid because I have lost pregnancy. – Felicia, Abuja I can understand your fears. Usually after cervical cerclage I normally advise couples to abstain from sex for four to six weeks. Though there are special circumstances based on history and cervical findings at operation that may necessitate longer period of abstinence. Discuss with your gynaecologist. I have been waiting for the fruit of the womb for the last two and half years. I missed my period and confirmed that I am two months pregnant. When I went for a scan I was told I have ovarian cyst. – Stella, Markurdi Once the scan has confirmed that the pregnancy is intrauterine, the worst fear is over and that is the problem of ectopic pregnancy. The ovarian cyst is not much of problem except it causes serious pains. One must bear in mind that it can even be corpus luteum which usually supports pregnancy at the early stage before placenta will take over. In case it is big and not posing too much problems like severe pains, the best thing is too observe. Some with big cysts will still carry the pregnancy without much problem. In case it warrants surgery it will be better to do it after the first trimester like from 14 weeks above. In case it is necessary to remove the cyst at eight weeks, then it may be necessary to support the pregnancy with progestogens; either pessary, injections or a combination of the two. See a gynaecologist. I am 20 weeks pregnant. Can I take alcoholic drinks? – Mrs. L, Kaduna I will not advise you to take alcohol during pregnancy. In higher doses, alcohol can lead to what we call foetal Alcohol Syndrome (FAS). This is a combined malformation that can be distressing.