The Secretary to the Delta State Government, Hon. Festus Ovie Agas, Monday debunked allegations of sharp practices in government business leveled against him some government functionaries, for which petitions are before the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC). Fielding questions from journalists at the flag-off of the 2018 edition of the Ministerial Press Briefing held at the Conference Hall of the Ministry of Information, Asaba, the SSG said he is not aware of petitions against him or functionaries or relations of Governor Ifeanyi Okowa before the EFCC for which his attention was needed by the anti-graft agency.  "For the past three years, I have not been invited by the EFCC as SSG. I can assure you that every contract going on in the state followed due process of award.  "The new multi-billion naira Secretariat under construction is being handled by a very reputable international construction company, same goes for the storm water drainage construction.  "I have no stake in these companies, so I cannot go to jail on account of any ongoing projects or contract in the state", the SSG stressed.  Hon. Agas, a former deputy speaker in the Delta State House of Assembly, said the Okowa administration inherited a bloated state civil service of about 65,000 staff strength, with a wagebill in excess of N7 billion, but as at last week, the number of workers in the state stands at 47, 697.  On the Asaba Airport, the SSG disclosed that it would be shut down completely effective April 9, for five weeks to undergo a major upgrade especially, the resurfacing of its runway and the provision of some vital technical facilities such as the Voice Communication System (VCS), the Automatic Weather Observation System (AWOS) and Low Level Windshear Alert System (LLWAS); after which it would be reopened in May.  "I can tell you on strong authority and in my honour that after the five weeks, the Airport will be reopened for full business for bigger planes to land and it will compete with any airport in Nigeria", he asserted.  Recounting the milestones recorded by the Okowa administration in the past three years, Hon. Agas said the State Government has engaged over 2,500 unemployed youths in its job and wealth creation schemes.  According to the SSG “The success of the schemes has attracted commendations and support of many national and international institutions, including the World Bank which became a co-sponsor for the third cycle of the programme.  “The State Government has redoubled its efforts in engaging Deltans, especially the youths in meaningful ventures through various skill acquisition programmes such as the Youth Agricultural Entrepreneur Programme (YAGEP) and Skills Training and Entrepreneurial Programme (STEP)”, the SSG said.  On the Delta State Contributory Health Scheme, the SSG stated that it was central to the Okowa led administration’s vision for universal health coverage in the state, saying that its purpose was to improve the availability and access to quality healthcare services for all Deltans.  According to him, over 62 general hospitals, 107 primary health care centres, 10 private hospitals and the federal medical centre, Asaba, had been accredited for the programme, Hon Agas affirmed that due care was taken to ensure fair distribution of the facilities across the state.  He said that while most public officers had enrolled into the scheme, the informal and private sectors were being mobilised to enroll, even as he said, “Annual premium is about seven thousand naira only which may be paid in installment and the state government bear the premium of pregnant women, children under 5-years and widows.  He assured that before the year runs out, physically and mentally challenged persons as well as the elderly above 65 years of age, would be enrolled on a free-premium basis.  The SSG stated that a total of 70 road projects with a length of 263 kilometres had been completed and others were at various stages of progress.  He also added that there had been massive development of infrastructure across primary, post-primary and tertiary educational institutions in the state, saying, “This has partly contributed to the successful accreditation of the courses in most of the institutions, including the Law, Engineering and Medical Sciences programmes in Delta State University, Abraka.  On Pensions, the SSG said “Workers that retired under the Old Pension Scheme are up to date. For the workers that retired under the Contributory scheme, government been releasing N300 million naira monthly towards defraying the commitments to them, while the re-computation of the actuarial value of their past services in line with the current salary scale is at the completion stage.  “Government has been regular in releasing its 10 per cent counterpart contribution towards the claims of serving workers which amounts to approximately N322 million monthly while also ensuring the release of the workers 7½ per cent contribution into their Retirement Savings Accounts.  “The payment of the accrued claims from the Old Scheme into the new scheme has been a challenge because of the huge outlay of funds required and appealed to the retirees involved with the claim to bear with the state government as work towards resolving the actuarial valuation is on-going to find a way forward towards defraying it", he explained.  Earlier, the Commissioner for Information, Mr. Patrick Ukah, stated that the Okowa led-administration had made exemplary legacy records of policy reforms and landmark achievements in agricultural transformation, fiscal prudence, road rehabilitation and construction.  “It is therefore very important that the information on the programmes, projects and policies of the government is transmitted down to the populace as it is the fundamental right of the people to be properly informed of the activities of their government.” Mr Ukah stated. 