Massive defection has rocked Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Yobe as its 7000  members dumped the party for All Progressive Congress in Potiskum local government area of the state. The team of defectors attributed their exit to APC to the months of intractable divisions, crises and lack of direction bedeviling PDP as a party in the state.  Leader of the defectors, Alhaji Saleh Jauro, said the party was divided against itself with irreconcilable differences as the two factions in the PDP chapter of the Local Government have threatened to field parallel candidates to contest 2019 general election.  An APC chieftain, Alhaji Ibrahim Bomai, who was instrumental to their defection,  said that APC is willing to  accommodate more people that would work for its success in zone B and Yobe state at large.  "APC is very happy that you have now realized the truth and renounced your membership of the PDP by transferring your loyalty to the APC. I assure you that your coming is an indication and testimony to the good things Governor Gaidam has been doing to the people of Yobe State.”  Receiving the defectors, the state chairman of All Progressive Congress, Alhaji Adamu Chilariye, said the defectors would not regret leaving PDP as it has nothing to offer in the state, "APC has been waxing stronger and has become more united. more people will soon join the party and we will collectively work to ensure its success at all levels during the forthcoming general election".  He commended Governor Ibrahim Gaidam for the development stride,which according to him, made has given enough reason for people to join the APC without hesitation. Also speaking, the Youth Leader of PDP in Potiskum Local Government, Alhaji Lamaran who was among the defectors said they dumped the party in solidarity with Alhaji Ibrahim Bomai, whom he described as a man of integrity that contributed to the welfare of less privileged in the society. The Woman Leader of the PDP, Hajiya Hauwa'u Ibrahim Nagodi, also described Bomai as a selfless leader with a capacity to stand up for the good people of the state.