 President Muhammadu Buahri has said that the federal government would work hard to address gaps in the provision of neurodevelopmental disorder services for sufferers and their families in the country. He made the promise on Friday in Abuja during the public presentation of a book on neurodevelopmental disorders authored by Dr. Austin Amaechi , and launch of a non-governmental organization called Neurodevelopmental Disorders Rescue Initiative (NDRI). The president said government would also strengthen existing legislations on neurodevelopmental disorders. Represented by the Minister of Health, Prof. Isaac Adewole, President Buhari,  said that the federal government welcomes the publication and sees it as an opportunity to initiate constructive discussion on progressive implementation of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of  Persons with Disabilities. Author of the book, Dr. Austin Amaechi, lamented that neurodevelopmental disorders such as Autism Spectrum Disorders (ASD), cerebral palsy, and Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) were on the rise. He said that the book titled ‘Neuro-developmental Disorders: Enhancing Everyday Life - Non Existent Therapeutic Services in Nigeria - let's do something about it’ was written to enlighten people on the symptoms of selected neuro-developmental disorders , and to encourage early clinical diagnosis and therapeutic interventions. He, said research reveals that mothers of children with developmental disabilities were at greater risk of more stress, psychological distress and poorer health than mothers of typically developing children. Amaechi said there was absence of facilities to cater for children with Neuro- developmental disabilities in the country , adding that this makes many families to hide such children. "The government needs to be ready to play its part in making treatments and training of these individuals easy for parents. With adequate supports from the government and by ensuring that children with this conditions have access to public health, education and support services, they will be able to do well within the society,” he said. Highlights of the event was the unveiling of the book by the wife of the president Hajiya Aisha Buhari who was represented by the wife of the  Nassarawa state governor, Hajiya Tanko Al-Makura .  