A former Member of the House of Representatives from Bauchi State, Aliyu Ibrahim Gebi, has joined the race for the Bauchi South Senatorial District seat. Also, interest groups in Toro Local Government Area of the state have expressed support for a former Attorney General and Commissioner for Justice, Barrister Ibrahim Yakubu Umar, to replace late Senator Ali Wakili. Gebi, who is now an adviser to the Minister of Interior, retired Lieutenant General Abdulrahman Dambazau, announced his intention to join the race while speaking to journalists at his residence in Bauchi. He said he would vie for the Bauchi South senate seat to help in bringing dividends of democracy to the people. He called on politicians from the state; especially those occupying elective offices, to make peace with one another for the benefit of the electorate and development of the state. Gebi described the political feud between Gov. Mohammed Abubakar and some members of the National Assembly, including the Speaker of the House of Representatives, Yakubu Dogara, as unfortunate. “Speaker Dogara has immense powers and we need to bring him close to the fold…Our differences aside; our people are dying of hunger, illiteracy and insurgency, but we are too busy fighting,” he said.ý Also, the Chairman of Amalgamated Union of Toro Youths and Women Awareness Group, Alhaji Abubakar Usman, expressed support for Umar yesterday during the formal declaration of the ex-commissioner for the senate seat. Usman observed that from 1999 to date, Bauchi, Tafawa Balewa and Alkaleri local government areas had been producing senators for the Bauchi South Senatorial District, hence the need to allow Toro to fill the gap this time around. “Toro is the largest local government area, not only among the seven local governments in Bauchi South but in the whole country. “Therefore, we appeal to people in the zone to give our son a chance,” he said. In his remarks, Barrister Umar promised to consolidate on the legacies of late Senator Wakili and to support President Muhammadu Buhari’s programmes and policies to bring the desired change.