A former Executive Secretary to the United Nations Economic Commission for Africa, Prof Adebayo Adedeji, has died on Wednesday, April 25 in Lagos after a protracted illness. He was aged 87. Prof Adebayo, an Ijebu Ode-born economist and diplomat, was born on December 21, 1930. He was the founder and pioneer Chairman of the National Youth Service Commission (NYSC). In the early 1970s, as Nigeria's Federal Commissioner for Economic Development and Reconstruction, he took a leading part in the negotiations that brought the establishment of the Economic Community of West African States (ECOWAS). Then, as Executive Secretary of the UN Economic Commission for Africa (ECA) from 1975 through 1993, he actively promoted the creation of other regional groupings, including the Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA), which subsequently became the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA). He was Director of the African Centre for Development and Strategic Studies, a think-tank based in Ijebu Ode, Nigeria. He was also the founding Executive Director of the African Centre for Development and Strategic Studies (ACDESS). Adedeji was involved in community issues in Ijebu-Ode and became the Asiwaju of Ijebuland. He was also the chief adviser of the Ijebu Ode monarch, Oba Sikiru Adetona.  ‘One of eminent Nigerians who had done his best’ A former Minister of Foreign Affairs,  Professor Bolaji Akinyemi, has described the late Prof Adedeji as a rare diplomat and one of the eminent Nigerians who had done his best for the country and the world in general. Reacting to Adedeji’s death in Lagos, Akinyemi said though the late economist, whom he described as a senior colleague, was of those Nigerians regarded as lucky to have had his talent recognized nationally and internationally. “Professor was a senior colleague before he went to join General Yakubu Gowon’s cabinet and later on joined the United Nations. He served Nigeria in several capacities as a scholar, teacher, minister and international civil servant. We must not forget that he was also appointed by the Murtala Muhammed regime to chair a panel to prepare a report and review Nigeria’s foreign policy. So his talent was used considerably,” he said. Also, the Ogun State governor, Senator Ibikunle Amosun, has mourned the death of the pioneer ECA Executive Director. Amosun, who described the death of the former UN Undersecretary-General as a sad loss, said he would be remembered as a foremost economist, champion of regional integration and distinguished public servant. In a statement signed by the state Commissioner for Information and Strategy, Otunba Adedayo Adeneye, the governor said the late Adedeji was an illustrious son of Ogun State and Nigeria who excelled in all his assignments at home and abroad. "His roles in ECOWAS, as well as the Preferential Trade Agreement (PTA) which later became the Common Market for Eastern and Southern Africa (COMESA), were demonstrations of his zeal for the advancement of Africa. "He also did not relent in his determination to ensure the growth of his home town, Ijebu Ode, through his remarkable contributions as the Director of the African Centre for Development and Strategic Studies, a think-tank NGO based in the community", the governor added. Amosun prayed for the repose of his soul, urging his family to take solace in the fact that he lived a fulfilled life.