What were your early struggles? I was born into a noble family; noble not in the sense of financial conveniences but in terms of character. My family was a prominent one in my town, Modakeke, Osun State, where I was born on March 5, 1938. Our progenitor was called Jagun Omodelola. I came rather late to my mother as she had been married long before I was born but didn’t conceive early. The significance of that was that they had been eagerly expecting me, so every member of the family was happy to identify with me; they doted on me. This had some adverse effects on me because of the care I received from my relations. Not that I was being spoilt but I didn’t start school until I was 10 years old. How did that affect you when you eventually got to school? Fortunately, I caught up with the lateness. Today, our children start school at even younger than six years old, but in those days, even if you were eight years old but you didn’t have the commensurate stature, you would have to go through what we called infant classes. You would start from Infant 1D and the following year, if you were brilliant enough, you would be promoted to Infant 1C, and from there to infant 1B and then 1A before you go to Class 2. But, for me, because of my age and, with all modesty, my level of intelligence, I spent only one year in each of those classes. From the infant classes, I was able to take promotional examination to Standard One and read through to Standard Six. Before I left St Stephen’s Primary School in December 1954, my mother reminded me of our lowly financial background. She said she knew I was brilliant but if I was to continue with my education, I would have to work for some period with my First School Leaving Certificate (FSLC). It wasn’t difficult for me to get a job after primary education; I got an appointment as a Pupils Teacher with my FSLC. In those days, untrained teachers were called Pupils Teachers. How did you have the opportunity of a college education? When in late 1955, my primary school mates  were aspiring to attend a Grade Three teacher training, I told them I wouldn’t be able to take the form because of the agreement I had with my mother that I would work for some period to earn some money before I proceed with my education. In January 1956, the Anglican Mission suddenly arrived in Osun State to establish a new Grade 3 Teacher Training College. The establishment was an emergency; the missionaries wanted the school to start that same year, in that January. My mates went for the form and came back with one for me. We took the entrance examination and the result came out two weeks later. I was the only one among us who made it. But I decided I wouldn’t attend the oral interview because I had no money for transportation from Modakeke to Ilesa. As fate would have it, a close friend of mine walked into our house around 6am on the interview day and gave me three shillings for transportation, with an appeal I should attend the interview. The amount was enough to take me there, so I had no choice than to head straight to the venue of the interview. When I got there, the Principal told me that the money for my form was not remitted to them. He advised me to go to the Education Office, which was about four kilometres from the school, to sort myself out. I decided that if I got to the Education Office and the District Supervisor returned my money to me, I would just return home from there and wouldn’t go for the interview again. When I got there, the DS checked his records and said I had paid. He told me he would send a message to the Principal, but I insisted that the Principal wanted me to bring the money. The Supervisor became angry for my curiosity. I apologized and went back to the school. Before I got back there, the DS had sent a message to the Principal and I was interviewed. When the result came out, I came first. The school authorities said academics would start in two weeks and we were asked to pay 27 pounds 10 shillings before then. But bearing in mind the agreement I had with my mother, I couldn’t even tell her about the development. So, I kept it within me. I sent a telegram to the school management that I wasn’t feeling fine and wouldn’t be able to start school, but would come later. The Principal expected me for some time but I didn’t show up. I, however, thought about seizing the opportunity to acquire college education and began looking for people who could assist me. One of those I approached for assistance told my mother about it. She became furious that I exposed her inability to pay my school fees. Who eventually came to your rescue? Days after that, the Reverend of the church I was attending sent someone to me that I should meet him. When I got there, he asked if I was the one who got an admission to the college at Ilesa. I told him yes and he asked of the content of the telegram I sent to the school. I replied that I said I was not well, and he asked if that was true. I told him no, that it was because I had no money. He was annoyed I lied. He told me that when he sent for me, the Principal of the college at Ilesa was with him in Modakeke to inform him that I was the best candidate in that examination and he wouldn’t want to lose me. He appealed to him to do everything he could to help me. The Principal told me to bring my parents, and the following told me to bring my parents, and the following morning, I went there with my mother and my step-father. He didn’t ask them anything. He simply told me in their presence to come back for my school fees at 11am that day. That was how the church sponsored my education for the two-year course. I had written myself off but God miraculously helped me. In fact, before I started teaching in 1955, I had started learning some trades. I was learning printing and driving from a relation. You acquired fame as a football teacher rather than one of academics. How did the metamorphosis happen? When I was in primary school, we used to have inter-class football matches during break, and I was doing well. Our teachers usually selected me for training after school, but because I had to go to either the farm or for drumming, which was our family business, there was no time for me to attend training after school. When I got to college in Ilesa, I wasn’t going to the farm and there was no drumming again, meaning I had time for sports. We were the first set at that college, so we needed to raise a school team. That was what gave me the opportunity to join our school team. From then, I began to display my dexterity in sports and to receive awards. After graduation as a Grade Three teacher from training college, I went back to my old primary school and became a games master there. I was also invited to the Ile-Ife divisional team. Meanwhile, by 1957, there was a prominent footballer in Nigeria called Teslim Akanni Balogun, popularly called Thunder Balogun because of the power of his shots. I still consider him the best footballer Nigeria has ever produced. After playing for some clubs in Nigeria and the national team, Balogun decided to go to England to play his football. He was doing well at Queen’s Park Rangers and other clubs he played for in England when the then Premier of the Western Region, Chief Obafemi Awolowo, got to England to attend the Constitutional Conference. Chief Awolowo got across to Thunder Balogun and urged him to return to Nigeria as a coach with the Western Region Sport Council. When Balogun was touring the old Western Region in 1958 looking for talents, he spotted me at Ile-Ife and asked me to join a football team in Ibadan. I told him that wouldn’t be possible because I was already a Grade 3 teacher earning 10 pounds per month. If I accept the offer, I may not get more than 2 shillings after important matches. But Balogun kept a tab on me. We kept relating. In 1960, I applied to do my Grade 2 teachers training after five years as a Grade 3. I was offered admission at both St Peter’s Teacher Training College, Akure and St Luke’s Teacher Training College, Ibadan. I preferred Akure but a day before the interview at St Luke’s where I had decided I wouldn’t go, I received a message that our school fees deposited at St Peter’s had been returned. So I had to take up the admission at St Luke’s, Ibadan, and that made me get closer to Teslim Balogun. One day, in 1960, while training with the senior students at the college, they discovered that I was better than the school goalkeeper and that was how I became the goalkeeper throughout 1960. In 1961, I became the captain of the team, as well as its coach because our games master knew nothing about sports. He was actually our English teacher. I was inviting Balogun occasionally to supervise my coaching and he was encouraging me. He told me he saw the potential of me becoming a successful coach. As the chief coach at the Sport Council, Balogun organized a coaching course and invited the then national chief coach, Mr Bet Hallevy, to conduct the course. We were almost 30 invited for that course. I took permission from our school’s management to attend the three-week programme. At the end of the course, I was among the 12 people who obtained the coaching certificate in 1961. That was how I got my first coaching certificate. Did you attend the coaching course to become a professional football coach? Not really. My ambition then was that after leaving the college, I would use the experience to be a good games master at whichever school they posted me to. In 1962, I was posted to the Ilesa Secondary Modern School. That year, the Ijesa Divisional Sport Council held their annual meeting and I was appointed a coach/player with the Ijesa divisional team. They had got information that I was a certificated coach. After a year, I took the entrance examination course to the Rural Education College, Akure. The school was established in 1938 and focused on agricultural sciences. There was no sport in that school’s curriculum until I got there and we were the second set of young people for a straight course. We set up a school team and we were doing fine. When you decided to venture into football, which was not profitable then, what was the reaction of your parents? My father was late then, but my mother didn’t raise any eyebrow. It was not a question of sport being profitable then. Remember also that I came rather late to my mother, so she was naturally apprehensive I could injure myself. But when she discovered I was doing well, she became calm. You were a player and a coach. What else were you in football administration? I became a registered referee in 1958 and later rose to the level of a Grade 1 referee. I was handling Challenge Cup matches. In 1971, I was the National Training Officer for Nigerian referees. As a coach, referee and player, what is your take on the constant allegation that some football club owners bribe referees to win matches? Not in our time. A lot of questionable things are happening today. There was discipline then. You dare not try such a thing in those days. I don’t know if they are bribing referees today, but it was not acceptable during our time. Referees were very strict then. In 1984, the Super Eagles team that you took to the African Nations Cup as Chief Coach lost in the final to Cameroon. Many conspiracy theories sprang up as reason for the loss. What actually went wrong? That match was one of the reasons I always kick when people talk about restructuring. Whenever some Yoruba people say restructuring will solve Nigeria’s problems, I laugh. Why? Because there is no love lost in the land generally, even among people of the same tribe. For instance, how many kilometres separate Modakeke from Ile-Ife? Virtually none. They are so contiguously the same that it is only the citizens of the two communities that know their boundary. But are they friendly? Ijebu Remo and Ijebu Ode, and Egba and Egbado are also so neighbourly, but are they as friendly as they should be? Investigations revealed that some people felt that winning that African Nations Cup in 1984 would bring glory to Modakeke through me. They were asking: why Modakeke of all places? So some people plotted their evil and we experienced the worst. When the media sought my reaction on the loss, I told them that it was Nigeria that lost the match, not Onigbinde. How did you emerge the first indigenous national football coach/manager? Yes, I was the first Nigerian to handle the national team on full employment. Before then, Nigeria had only foreign coaches. The process of my appointment as the national team coach was interesting. In 1982, Nigeria went to Libya for The African Cup of Nations and they didn’t do well. They came back and there was a sharp division between the players and officials. The Nigerian football authorities then began toying with the idea of having a Nigerian to handle the national team. I didn’t apply early because I believed I didn’t have any connection. But a colleague pressurised me to submit my application a day after entries had closed. I was, thereafter, invited for interview and later got the job despite the fact that I was nowhere among the prominent coaches then. When I went to thank the NFA Secretary of the screening committee for inviting me for the interview, he showed me the score sheet. I was on an aggregate of 84 per cent, while the next person to me among the favourites was on 65 per cent. In 2002, you again accepted the national team Technical Director’s job to take the Super Eagles to the World Cup only about three months to the competition in South Korea/Japan. Didn’t you envisage a poor outing considering the little time you had to prepare the team? Any assignment at all is a challenge to an intelligent person. This is because if you are given an appointment and you continue to do it the way your predecessors were doing it, then your presence there would be of no value. You must create a new method to move things forward. Was it true as believed in some quarters that you got the Eagles job through the influence of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo, who was the President at that time? That is a fallacy. It was after we came back from the World Cup that I met Obasanjo for the first time in my life when he hosted NFA officials, players and the technical crew. But he publicly said that day that some people were rooting for a foreign coach and he wouldn’t approve it. I never met him before then and I never sent anyone to him. Did you truly have a bitter rivalry with coaches Amodu Shuaib and Stephen Keshi, both now late, for control of the national team? There was an advertisement in the newspapers for the position of the head of the technical crew of the NFA and I applied for it. After a rigorous interview process, I emerged the winner and a letter of appointment was given to me with a condition they would still be discussing with me before I assume duties. I accepted the appointment tentatively pending the time of discussion. I went to Abuja and it was during our discussion that I made them to understand the enormity of the work of a technical director of a team. I emphasized that if any of the team’s department has a problem, the technical department takes over in the interim. That is the practice all over the world. After the collapse of the team at the African Nations Cup in Mali in 2002, the team was disbanded. The coaches were sacked. It was the duty of the technical department to take over. Unfortunately, the coaches that prepared the team to that level, Amodu Shuaib and Stephen Keshi, didn’t understand that simple concept. It took them years before they could move close to me. They thought I was in Mali to run them down so that I could take over their job. But I was there to assist them. Until I was able to explain this to them, they didn’t get close to me. Although the NFA and I had not finalized our discussion, I was acting as head of the technical department so I had to take over when the team had problems. Of course, I didn’t cause the problems. The team collapsed and the coaches were rude to the then Sports Minister, permanent secretary and even board members of the NFA. Before the end of that tournament in Mali, I had gone to Europe on holiday on realising that my suggestions were no more being considered. In fact, I thought my services were no more needed. I was in the United Kingdom when I heard that the team had been disbanded and the coaches sacked. The NFA invited me to return from the UK as the head of the technical department to take the team to the World Cup. That was what happened. Why did you include a 17-year-old inexperienced footballer, Femi Opabunmi, in your squad to the 2002 World Cup? After I arrived from London to take over the team in March 2002, I was with the Minister of Sports to discuss how to rebuild the team when a staff of the ministry brought a note to him. He read the note and passed it to me across the table. The content of the note was that the players that played in Mali were threatening that if any of them was left out of the squad, they would not turn up if invited for the World Cup tournament in South Korea/Japan, which would be starting only in a couple of months. In about another 10 minutes, the staff brought in another note which read that any player who reports to camp was only coming to sabotage our efforts. You can now see that I had no alternative than to look for new players. That was why new players like Vincent Enyeama, Femi Opabunmi, Osaze Odemwingie were invited to the team. Opabunmi’s name was not initially on the list, but I insisted he should be included as an apprentice player so that he could learn from the experience. He was just getting out of the Under-17 team and I saw the potential in him. When I recruit for a team, either club or national, I don’t hunt for a star; I look for a talent. It is my duty to polish that talent into a star. I don’t want players who won’t be able to do what I want from them. Did some of the established players later join you in camp, and what was the result? I submitted my list of 32 players and when the NFA was raising an eyebrow on it, I told them that if any of the players was removed, I would not go to the World Cup. They didn’t know my intention, which was that by the time I got to London, the players who threatened not to report would join us, and that was exactly what happened. They knew that if I tried anybody in their positions and he did well, they would be out of the national team. So, they started reporting. I saw Kanu, Okocha and others. The first friendly match in London that we played against Paraguay, who beat Brazil home and away, was a draw. Who was your best or favourite player then? I don’t have any. Football is team work. I may not be good in one area but you will be. The thought of a good coach should be that 11 men reason and behave like one man. What was responsible for your team’s poor performance at the 2002 World Cup? Two things. One, I built that team in less than three months. Secondly, some people came there mainly to sabotage our efforts. But didn’t you say you were alerted on sabotage? Yes, I dropped some of them but some others were mounting pressure on me, sending messages to me pledging their support and loyalty  to me and the national team. It was these same people who worked against us. The goal scored by Argentina was headed right in front of my defender. Would that defender be Taribo West? I don’t know. But if you want to find out more, go to Google and type my name and Taribo West’s and you will see where Taribo said Onigbinde should be removed. What would you say is the problem with Nigerian football, as some believe the quality remains stunted? It is very simple; we are not developing our football. We only participate in competitions. But a competition is just like an examination in school. If a teacher asks students to write an exam without teaching them adequately, how does he expect them to perform well? We are not developing our talents, not only in football but in all sports. I wrote my first paper on this subject in 1965 and nothing has changed till today. Now, let’s go to this globally controversial issue: who is greater between Messi and Ronaldo? The qualities one has, the other may not have them. We cannot compare them in any way. One man is tall, while the other is short but they are both fantastic players. Do you still relate with some of the talents you discovered? Yes, occasionally. I don’t want to complain, but I want to say it is not as cordial as it should be. A lot of people have asked me a similar question but the answer is that I don’t complain. What is your assessment of the Nigerian squad going to the 2018 World Cup in Russia? I don’t really know most of the players. Knowing them by name doesn’t mean that I know them. I need to see them in action so that I can say what each of them can do with the ball. I have gone beyond being an armchair critic. Is it true that some people use charm in football matches? That was one of the problems I had with the supporters of a popular football club in the South-west. You would have a match and the money you needed to use to prepare the team, you would give it to some people to do charm for them. A player who cannot hold a ball accurately for a few minutes, what charm will help him do that? I am not saying there are no supernatural powers, but not in football. You divorced one of your wives last year, when you were 79 years old. Why did you take such an action at that age? This woman came into my life about 30 years ago. She claimed she had a baby for me. The child was not relating with members of my family as brothers and sisters. In Yorubaland, you don’t call a child a bastard because he doesn’t look like you but as a result of the child’s behaviour. I kept calling the attention of her mother to it but she apparently wasn’t ready to do anything about it. But then, I am not the type that punishes you for someone else’s offence. The main reason for the divorce was the attitude of the woman herself. The women left my house from 2014 to 2016. She claimed she travelled to the north to take care of her grandchild. I was admitted to the hospital during that period and she was merely greeting me on the telephone. Is that a wife? She has a brother in the UK. When she came back home, whenever the brother visited Nigeria, I would not see this woman for a week. Because I was brought up in a very large family, I had decided I would not have two pots of soup in my house, even if I had 10 wives. But at a point, she said a doctor told her not to eat what the rest were eating at home. I don’t have any problem with that, but I have with a woman who cooks and refuses to eat out of it. No one can take that. Would that be one of your regrets? I don’t regret any of my actions. I appreciate all God has done in my life and I will keep appreciating Him.