The General Overseer (G.O) of the Redeemed Christians Church of God (RCCG), Pastor Enoch Adeboye, yesterday advised Christians to emerge victorious in trying times, just as Jesus  Christ conquered death on the cross of Calvary. Adeboye gave the advice during a sermon he delivered at the RCCG national headquarters in Ebute Meta, Lagos, to mark Easter Sunday. He said that every  Christian’s greatest sacrifice was x-rayed on Good Friday which marked the sufferings, passion and death of Jesus. Adeboye, however, urged Christians to be steadfast and emerge victorious during pressing circumstances; same way as Jesus  when he rose from the dead. “Let us enforce victory over every situation that is going on in our country as we celebrate the risen Christ” he said. He urged all Christians to be bold and perceive every trying situation as a “horse” which could be divinely used in obtaining victory. Adeboye  urged the congregation to engage in the proclamation of the gospel of Christ on earth, and herald his resurrection. The News Agency of Nigeria reports that the service which lasted about four hours was also attended by several  church members.(NAN) Bauchi women devise local method of processing, preserving tomato paste Housewives in Bauchi have devised a way of processing and preserving  tomato paste locally for sale or consumption at home in times of scarcity. Checks by the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reveal that whereas those who sell the paste make appreciable profit, those who preserve same for domestic consumption save a lot of money. According to some of the housewives interviewed by NAN in Bauchi, the process of preparation is simple and keeps the taste and freshness of the paste for as long as three months or even beyond. They said those interested had the option of preparing either tomato paste alone or “tomapep” paste, a combination of fresh tomatoes mixed with pepper and onion. Mrs Adama Balteh, who explained the process, said the first step was to buy a large quantity of fresh tomatoes, grind same and boil to remove liquid from it completely. “As you boil the grinded tomatoes to remove liquid, you also wash and boil the containers to be used in preserving the paste; the containers must be durable and airtight. Most of us use salad cream bottles (Bama), which are thoroughly washed and boiled (covers removed) for five minutes. “Bottles that cannot withstand the pressure will crack and will therefore be eliminated, leaving only those qualitative enough for the preservation of the paste. The hot tomatoes completely drained of its liquid, is then poured into the equally hot bottles, added a pinch of salt and small quantity of oil, and then closed airtight to prevent the infiltration of micro-organisms.(NAN)