As part of formal celebrations of his 40th anniversary, the Emir of Ningi, Alhaji Yunusa Danyaya, bestowed a title on the wife of Bauchi State Governor, Hajiya Hadiza Abubakar and elevated his own son in the emirate’s traditional hierarchy.  As part of celebrations to mark his 40 years anniversary as the Emir of Ningi, His Royal Highness, Alhaji Yunusa Danyaya, bestowed traditional titles on the wife of Bauchi State governor, Hajiya Hadiza Abubakar and elevated his own son, Alhaji Yusuf Yunusa Danyaya in traditional ranking. The governor’s wife was turbaned “Uwar Matan Ningi” with Alhaji Yusuf as “Dan Buram Ningi.” He was formerly the “Dan Majen Ningi.” The turbaning attracted many dignitaries, including traditional rulers from within and outside the state to the palace to witness the event. Women in colourful attires perhaps dominated their male counterparts at the palace in a way to support their own, the wife of the governor. Royal drummers, bodyguards, palace courtiers and other royal servants occupied strategic places as dignitaries arrived in motorcades and paid homage to the emir. As a royal guest, the governor’s wife arrived the emir’s chambers with a retinue of well-wishers and had an interaction with the exclusively women entourage before making a grand entrance into the palace hall for the ceremony. The emir later emerged from another door together with the governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar. In a remark, the emir said that the turbaning of the governor’s wife was because of her humanitarian activities, especially in the area of women empowerment through her non-governmental organisation, (NGO), Bauchi Sustainable Women Economic Empowerment and Peace Initiative-(B-SWEEP) and her commitment to help the less-privileged children and women in the state. He described her as a very industrious woman and that the title was bestowed on her as a special way of showing his personal appreciation and that of his subjects to reciprocate for her philanthropic services to the people of Ningi. The emir said that the title makes the wife of the governor a council member in his palace. Appreciating the honour on his wife, Governor Abubakar pointed out that “our intention is to salvage the people from the myriad of problems they’ve been facing for a long time and to also move our dear state forward.” The governor’s wife was later dressed in a traditional flowing pink-coloured royal robe which signifies her status as a traditional title holder.  A woman of many titles The governor’s wife is a woman of much nobility as she has other traditional titles that equally recognised her efforts. Apart from the “Uwar Matan Ningi,” the governor’s wife also holds the traditional titles of “Alkyabban Wuro Modibbo Abba” in Gombe State, “Uwar Soron Galambi”, “Gimbiyar Kafin Madaki,” “Gimbiyar Nabayi,” “Gimbiyar Mbal,” and “Gimbiyar Tsafi”, among others.  A royal lineage Even as these traditional titles are being bestowed, the governor’s wife equally comes from a royal family. She was born into the Katsina royal family of Late Alhaji Abdullahi Yarima Yusuf and Hajiya Fatima Lalla, in the ancient city of Kano. She is from the Dallazawa ruling dynasty and a direct descendant of Mallam Ummarun Dallaje, one of the people who were given flags by Sheikh Usman Bin Fodio during the Jihad. The last emir in the Dallazawa ruling dynasty, Emir Abubakar, was her great-grandfather. He was the emir when the colonialists arrived and was deposed because of some disagreements. His exile moved the emirship to the Sullubawa ruling house of Katsina and Emir Dikko was made the first Sullubawa emir by the colonialists. Emir Dikko had been very close to the deposed emir Abubakar as such her grandfather served during his reign and was a council member of the emirate.  The new Dan Buram Ningi The emir’s son, Alhaji Yusuf Yunusa was elevated to the “Dan Buram” Ningi from the Dan Maje. He was turbaned as first Dan Majen Ningi in 2015. His two elder siblings, Haruna Yunusa and Muhammad Yunusa Muhammad hold the titles “Chiroman Ningi” and “Yariman Ningi” respectively. Yusuf’s modest ceremony at the palace followed after the turbaning of the governor’s wife. He was decorated in a white flowing robe after being informed of his responsibilities in the emirate by the emir. As his son, the emir reminded him of his duty to serve the people and be just. As tradition demands, the new “Dan Buram” later mounted his horse accompanied by some lieutenants on foot, toured the vicinity of the palace, greeted the people and later paid homage to his father, the emir. The new “Dan Buram Ningi” was born on January 28, 1968 in Ningi. He acquired both Islamic and western education in Ningi and other places. He attended University of Ibadan in 1990, University of Maiduguri, 1994 and did his NYSC from 1994 to 1995. He worked with Ningi Local Government from 1995 to 1996 and Nigeria Social Insurance Trust Fund (NSITF) as an Assistant Manager from 1996 to 2003. He was also a Senior Legislative aide in the Senate and House of Representatives between 2003 and 2009. He later ventured into personal business and established a company, Danyaya Integrated Ventures Ltd. and had been the Managing Director since 2009. He returned to Ningi in 2010 and was appointed by the emir as his Personal Secretary. Apart from celebration of these titles on the two personalities, Ningi Emirate has much to rejoice as Emir Danyaya formally marked four decades serving the people.