The video clip of two twin brother caught in homosexual act went viral yesterday on the social media. The video was actually recorded by the mother of the twin and uploaded online. The woman, identified as Patient Ishau, who admitted recording the obscene act said she did it in other to show the world the harm his ex-husband had done to the boys. The three year- old boys were allegedly caught in the act in Ajah area of Lagos. However, Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, who paid surprise visit to the twin at the mother's home, in the company of officials of the Ministry of Youth and Social Development, condemned the action of the boys. The children were subsequently withdrawn from their mother. Addressing the parents of the children, shortly before they were taken away by the ministry, Edgal said “We cannot allow these children to be brought up like this. It is obvious a grown up is teaching them. We must determine who they are. “Having watched the video and discussed with the Gender Unit of the Command, we are of the opinion that we can’t entrust these children in your care for now, until we established what happened.” The mother of the twin, Mrs. Patience Ishua said: “I shot the video clip and sent it to him to see the damage he has done to the children. He left me for an old woman. He usually comes to pick the children but whenever they came back, they would be acting strangely and be speaking vulgar words. At times, they would complain of pains in their anus. Their teacher even said that they were stooling blood. When I complained to him, he would not listen. The first day I saw them doing it was when I videoed them as evidence, my Pastor is even aware of the case. They have conducted deliverance on them even.” The father of the twins, Ekanta, described Ishua's claim as false, saying she never brought his notice to the act, except the video clip. “I was so shocked when I saw the clip because she did not even express any surprise while taking the shot, nor scold them. We separated barely a year because she was extremely violent,” Mr. Ekanta Ishua said. Edgal, informed that the matter would be taken before the law court to determine their suitability for parenthood.