A former speaker of the Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon Femi Bamisile and a former member of the House of Representatives, Hon Michael Bamidele, have asked workers in the state to reject the candidate of the PDP in the July 14 governorship election in the state. In different congratulatory messages to mark May Day, Bamisile, a govership aspirant, urged the workers to revolt against Governor Ayodele Fayose over alleged shabby treatment being meted to them by the government. Bamidele, also an aspirant,sympathised with the workers over non-payment of their salaries by the government, however, assured the workers that they would soon be receiving commensurate  values for their services. He saluted the workers for not betraying emotions and trust in spite of being owed eight month salary arrears, thereby subjecting them to untold hardship.  Bamisile urged workers to take their destiny in their own hands in the impending governorship election, by voting out the candidate presents by Fayose. He said it was quite distasteful and appalling for a governor, superintending over a financially challenged state like Ekiti  to place high premium on ferrying of prostitutes to the government house on the account of the state, when workers and pensioners are silently being killed as a result of unpaid wages. "Ekiti workers have no choice but to reject the PDP candidate in the coming election, because Fayose has failed the people "As we speak today, pensioners and local government workers are owed nine month salary arrears while the core civil servants and teachers were owed five months. This is not only wicked, but killing and frightening. "It is not that Ekiti was that poor but we have a governor who has no milk of kindness in him. At a time when workers were languishing in poverty, governor Fayose was building N16 billion worth flyover, this is grossly misplaced .  Bamidele in a statement by his media aide, Ahmed Salami, appealed to workers to embrace  the APC  in the coming governorship election describing the party as the only solution to their problems. “I want to salute the courage of our workers. I want to commend their patriotism in the face of unpaid salaries. I quite appreciate the fact that over 30 states of the federation are owing, but that of Ekiti is most troubling and disturbing because the state is largely a monolithic civil service state. “The Ekiti economy hangs on the civil service, and whatever happens at that level always percolates to every stratum of the society , so the civil service must be rightly managed for efficiency of governance”.