The Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), the Nigerian Catholic Diocesan Priests and the Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) have expressed outrage at the rising wave of violence and killings in Benue State and others parts of the country and demanded immediate and practical actions to stem the crisis. They made the call in separate statements following the Tuesday’s killing of 19 parishioners including two priests at a Catholic Church in Ayar Mbalom village of Gwer East Local Government Area of the state by suspected armed herdsmen during a 5.30am mass. The National President of the Nigerian Catholic Diocesan Priests, Rev. Sylvester Onmoke condemned the uprising in the Benue valley and wanton destruction of lives and properties by alleged foreign mercenaries masquerading as herdsmen. “On behalf of all Catholic Priests of Nigeria and Bishops (who are out in Rome for a meeting with the Pope), we bemoaned the killings of Reverend Fathers Joseph Gor and Felix Tyolaha and their parishioners at a morning Mass on Tuesday. The two priests and over 13 worshipers were murdered in cold blood at St. Ignatius Catholic Church, Ukpor-Mbalom, Gwer East Local Government Area on Tuesday,” Onmoke said. He urged members across the country to embark on a nine-day Novena prayer starting from Wednesday 25th April for peace and justice in Nigeria. Novena prayer in the Catholic faith is the recitation of prayers for nine consecutive days to achieve a specific purpose. He also urged the government to stop assault on holy places of worship, murder of clergymen and worshipers as the nation is not in a failed state and government should rise up to its responsibility of protecting lives and property in the society. Also, MURIC Director, Professor Ishaq Akintola, while condemning the latest attack as wicked, repulsive and barbaric, added that human life is sacred and only Allah has the right to freely take what He gave. “Although the attackers also burnt 50 houses and sacked the entire community, we are singling out the vicious attack on the church for strong condemnation. Those who attack the house of God have no single atom of piety in their hearts. They should therefore not expect mercy from Allah, the Supreme Creator. They seek to set different ethnic groups and religions at one another’s throats. But they will fail by the Grace of Allah. “We are constrained to observe that most of the killings around the Middle Belt area are ignited by hate speech. We therefore appeal to Nigerians to exercise caution in their utterances, to respect human life, tolerate and forgive one another. Every peaceful community is a round hole whereas vengeance is a square peg. It is therefore an alien instrument designed to cause commotion,” he said. He therefore charged the Inspector General of Police to bring the killers of the worshippers at St. Ignatius Catholic Church to book and for the Federal Government to stop the carnage in the country, particularly in Benue and Taraba. The CAN President, Dr Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, on his part said that with the parishioners’ killings Nigeria, is becoming a state of anomie. He said the CAN has declared Sunday 29 April, 2018, as a National Day of Protest against unending killings in the country. It also dedicates same day for prayers for the freedom of Leah Sharibu of Dapchi, the remaining Chibok girls and others still in captivity of the Boko Haram terrorists. “CAN urges Christians in Nigeria to hold peaceful protest on the set aside date, in the premises of their churches asking the Federal Government and the security agencies to stop the unending killings and bloodshed in the country. Christians are to carry placards with inscriptions meant to address issues about sustained killings, attacks and destruction of their property in Nigeria. “CAN appeal to the government of President Muhammadu Buhari to mount different effective plans aimed towards disarming herdsmen across the northern states and in communities where they have been wreaking havoc across the country in National interest. The failure of the government to raise an effective campaign against the killings by herdsmen is the reason they have continued to kill, while there is no visible plan to pacify the aggrieved,” Ayokunle said in the statement signed by his media aide, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji.