The National Chairman of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Prince Uche Secondus, has revealed that the party is in talks with other opposition parties, interest groups and former national leaders ahead of the 2019 general polls. Speaking during the opening session of the 79th Emergency National Executive ‎Committee (NEC) meeting of the party in Abuja, yesterday, Secondus said the essence of consulting widely was to form a stronger force, form a new government with a new  president in 2019 and rescue Nigeria from “bad governance.” Secondus didn’t give details on whether it was an alliance or merger deal, but insisted that the APC must be pushed out of office for failing Nigerians. “This obnoxious development has placed enormous challenge on us as the main opposition party to up our game and quickly rescue this country from the appalling APC administration. “Our consultations have taken us to meet with various interest groups who are willing to do business with us and I can report to you that it has been very fruitful. “We expect in coming days to have a broader political family working dedicatedly to rescue this democracy and our beloved country from the hands of APC. “We therefore, invite our brothers, sisters, youths and women from other political parties in this platform to join us to rescue our country that is in distress, socially, politically, economically and security wise,” he said. Secondus also said what happened in the Senate Wednesday was a clear assault on democracy; a coup against the legislature and should not only be condemned but those responsible should be tried for treason as demanded by the law. ‎Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, said “We need to tell Nigerians that ‎we are back to winning mode. We are satisfied with the peace effort in Ekiti, Osun and other parts of the country.” He asked the Secondus-led National Working Committee (NWC) to ‎do everything legitimately possible to ensure that the PDP reclaimed power at the centre in 2019. Governors Emmanuel Udom (Akwa Ibom); Ayo Fayose (Ekiti); Seriake Dickson (Bayelsa); Hassan Dankwambo (Gombe) and former governors of Jigawa State, Sule Lamido; Babangida Aliyu (Niger); ‎Idris Wada (Kogi); Ramalan Yero (Kaduna); Theodore Orji (Abia); Ahmed Makarfi (Kaduna); Ibrahim Shema (Katsina) and Godswill Akpabio (Akwa Ibom) were in attendance. Former Senate presidents David Mark and Adolphus Wabara; former Deputy Senate President Ibrahim Mantu, former ministers, senators, state chairmen and many others were at the meeting.