The Minority Leader of Ekiti State House of Assembly, Hon Gboyega Aribisogan, said his arrest by the police on Wednesday, April 4, was not about commission of any crime by him but to provide information on one of the Crime Reporters in the New Democrat newspaper, Rotimi Brown, over a misunderstanding between the reporter,  some politicians and military officers on alleged crime-related story. The lawmaker who confirmed his arrest by the police, recalled that he called the Commissioner of Police in the state, Mr Ibrahim Chafe, who advised that he should cooperate with the men who came with about eight policemen in unmarked vehicles to his house in Ado Ekiti The lawmaker further said he had told the police all he knew about the matter as the publisher of the newspaper. He, however, said that some powerful politicians in the state and some military officers were trying to use the arrest as a tool of propaganda to smear his name. He said: "I believe some powerful politicians and military officers are afraid of their shadows and want to use this to embarrass and intimidate me to submission. "The issue is not about me or any scam; it is about one of our freelance journalists who is investigating a story of alleged involvement of an outgoing governor in South West and some military officers in the on-going Dasukigate trial. "Apart from being a notable politician, I am a veteran journalist and publisher. I cannot be intimidated or cowed by any politician no matter his status. "I understand the hazards of the profession as a journalist of so many years. Even as a politician I know that opponents can go to any length to suppress or subvert the truth, but  I  believe no public officers should be afraid whenever they are asked to be accountable to the public. "Journalists are harmless; they don't carry guns, but their pen. They should be allowed to practise their profession without let or hindrance like other professionals." He commended the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, for the new reforms that had ushered in new orientation in the Force and thanked the Ekiti State Police Commissioner for  his quick response to his safety and intervention. He also commended the men of the IGP Special Task Squad for their professional conduct on the investigations.