Leaders of Civil Society Organisations (CSOs) leaders in Nigeria have expressed concerned over President Mahamadou Issoufou of Niger Republic harassment and detention of civil society leaders in the country. In a joint statement on Friday, 16 Nigerian CSO lamented that for the past three years, civil society activists in Niger have come under siege from state actors in a crackdown that has led to a series of convictions, arrests and detentions of the Nigerian activists. “On 25th March 2018, security agents’ raided offices of major civil society organisations in Niger, attacked and arrested 23 of their leaders. Those arrested are: Moussa Tchangari, Me Lirwana Abdourahamane,  Nouhou Mahamadou Arzika, Ali Idrissa, Moctar Oumarou, Halarou Abdou, Ousseini Maiga, Moumoudou Seyni, Moustapha Ibrahim, Abdoul Aziz Issaka and Ibrahim Malam Nameiwa. Others are Bachir Kadri, Abdoul Kader Hamza, Alassane Souleymane, Idrissa Adamou, Aminou Tayabou, Abdoulaye Mamadou Koné, Issoufou Maiwanzam, Hamaye Abdou, Chapiou Mahamadou, Mohamed Aminou Nassirou Hassane, Soumaila Hassane and Abdouljamal Alassane. The statement said the arrested activists were charged for participation in an illegal demonstration and were sent to jail without trial, while the radio and television station, Radio et Télévision Labarai (RTL) was closed. They therefore among others urged President Muhammadu Buhari in the spirit of good neighbourliness and the ECOWAS Supplementary Protocol on Democracy and Good Governance to intervene with his Niger counterpart to secure the release of civil society leaders and the edification of democracy and the rule of law. “We call for the immediate release of our comrades unlawfully detained in prisons in Niger; demand for a stop at the systematic harassment and serial arrest of civil society organisations and leaders in Niger; appeal for a review of the 2018 budget, which has significantly increased the austerity measures in Niger and increased the suffering and misery of the masses in Niger,” the said. The statement was signed by Jibrin Ibrahim Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD), Y. Z. Ya’u Centre for Technology and Development, John Odah Organisation of Trade Unions of West Africa, Auwal Musa Rafsanjani CISLAC, Idayat Hassan CDD, Ezenwa Nwagwu Say No Campaign, Jaye Gaskiya, Protest to Power and Zikirullahi Ibrahim Resource Centre for Human Rights &Civic Education (CHRICED). Others are Okeke Anya State of the Union (SOTU), Halima Nuhu Zero Corruption Coalition (ZCC), Olanrewaju Suraju Civil Society Network Against Corruption (CSNAC), Chioma Kanu Accountability Mechanism for Maternal New Born and Child Health in Nigeria (AMHiN), Chinedu Bassey, Tax Justice and Governance Platform, Abubakar Siddique Mohammed Centre for Democratic Research and Training, Dr Abubakar Muazu Borno Coalition for Democracy and Progress (BOCADEP) and Asmau Joda Centre for Women and Adolescent Empowerment.