Ebonyi state director of the National Orientation Agency (NOA), Dr Emma Abah has linked incidents of thuggery as reasons why Nigerian public lost confidence in electioneering across the states of the federation. Dr Abah, urged youths in the state to resist bid by desperate politicians to use them as tool to format violence in 2019 elections. He made this call at the weekend during a one-day security sensitisation programme 'Against Political Thuggery, Kidnapping and Drug Addiction', at Afikpo North local government area of Ebonyi state. Abah who was represented by state NOA Assistant Director Mr. Theophilous Nwakpor, insisted that the menace of political thuggery in Nigeria has to be checked in order to alien with the concept of democracy and its sustenance for the people and by the people. "Some Nigerians have lost confidence in the politics of the nation this is as a result of political thuggery perpetrated by youths who politicians employed their services during elections. "So we are using this opportunity to inform youths to guide against being used by desperate politicians as thugs because they will use you and dump you after achieving their selfish political goals. " We are also telling parents, traditional rulers and other stakeholders to rise up to the challenges of ensuring that their children and subjects are not use as tools for thuggery in 2019 elections. “Do the right thing and if you see something, say something, " Abah insisted. Earlier, the Chairman of the Afikpo North local government area, Mr Ogbonnaya Oko-Eyum said to make elections free, fair and credible, political thuggery, kidnapping and drug addiction must be quickly addressed. Oko-Eyum was represented by the Council 's Vice chairman, Mrs Patricia Obila who also urged parents especially mothers to ensure good and effective parenting. "Majority of youths who indulge in most of the heinous crimes come from broken homes with little or no proper upbringing and these youths will resort to drugs, " Oko-Eyum said. The event was attended by traditional rulers, town union executives, security agencies and youths drawn from the zone including members of Nigeria Drugs Law Enforcement Agency. 