Ten people have been killed by gunmen in another attack on rural communities of two local government areas (LGAs) in Benue State. And in Nasarawa State, gunmen alleged to be Fulani herders killed four people in separate attacks in Kadarko and Kange villages in Keana, Awe and Doma LGAs. Daily Trust gathered that the 10 in Benue were killed in separate incidents in Gbeji community of Ukum LGA and Tswarev district of Logo LGA on Tuesday night. Locals said the attackers came in their hundreds and opened fire on the villagers, killing seven in Gbeji and three others in Logo while they set houses ablaze during the three hours of their operation. It was also learnt that the villagers in affected areas have fled their homes for safety. The Chairman of Logo council, Richard Nyajo, confirmed the attack and killings in his area and appealed to security agencies to do more in safeguarding lives and properties. The state Commissioner of Police, Fatai Owoseni, also confirmed the incident, saying that four corpses had been recovered by his men and that investigation into the matter had started. “There was an incident in Gbeji and we are investigating. There was said to be an attack by suspected herders in the area but we can confirm that as at this morning (Wednesday), four dead bodies were recovered there. We have stepped up security in the area and we are investigating,” Owoseni said. On the Nasarawa killings, the Personal Assistant to Governor Tanko Al-Makura, Engineer Moses Utendo, told Daily Trust that a 29-year-old man, Isreal Okeh was yesterday attacked and killed by armed herders along Ankoma-Doka road in Doma LGA. The victim who hails from Gidan Rai was said to be conveying two women on a motorcycle when the attackers ambushed and killed him while the two women escaped. Locals told our correspondent that At Udela village in Awe LGA, the gunmen opened fire on the locals in the midnight, killing one on the spot and severey injuring two others. In Kadarko town in Keana LGA, suspected herders invaded the town situated along Lafia-Makurdi expressway and shot sporadically, killing three people, including a nursing mother.