Alhaji Zaharadeen Mohammadu Sunusi is the District Head of Chamo and Dan Isa of Dutse Emirate in Jigawa State. He spoke on rampant cases of divorce in the North and measures to tackle the trend among other issues. Excerpts:  Traditional leaders from other parts of the North have adopted the principle of alternative dispute resolution. Are you contemplating replicating same in your domain? Enmity sets in as a result of court cases to the level where the common bond suffer a high level of setbacks and sometimes court cases lingered beyond necessary. It is based on this reason that the traditional institutions from the emirate introduced a mechanism of settling cases out of court. Out of court settlements that are before a court are settled with the consent of the Judges handling the matter. Intervention in this regard is crucial in order to avoid any form of dislocation in the social order of the people. Herders/farmers conflict is all over the country, what is the situation in your domain? Here and by extension the entire emirate, herders-farmers conflict is non-existent while it has been prohibited to see animal in the wild without shepherds. Cattle routes are guarded against farm encroachment while night rearing has also been prohibited. These and many other measures adopted help in the relative peace so far enjoyed in the entire emirate. Years back, we have noticed influx of camels from Niger Republic. What is the traditional institution doing in checking their movement especially, at this time when the country is yet to contain the trouble? Of recent, we have started experiencing the influx of camels but we are unperturbed because at present all farm produce have been harvested. The only and biggest problem with these camels is the way they move around without shepherds and that is dangerous to motorists particularly, when the animals are crossing the highway. It is against this backdrop that we sat with their owners and interestingly, they get into the country with their valid documents. So we are working towards finding a lasting solution. In one breath, what will you say is synonymous with your emirate? Of course, on conflict resolution, over 1000 cases were settled out of court in only two districts of Sakwaya and Dutse. These cases were resolved from the office of the District and Ward heads. They were settled without a single complain from either of the parties involved. However, the few that could not be amicably settled were forwarded to the courts while others to the police. Many are still advocating for a constitutional role for traditional leaders, what is your take on that? Ever since, traditional leaders have a role to play in this country. Traditional leaders are key in most developmental projects. Take for instance, the case of polio eradication campaign. The story for the success of polio campaign will not be completed without mentioning the contribution of traditional leaders, so it is in the case of fertilizer distribution, campaign on voters’ card registration and host of others.