The Federal Capital Territory Internal Revenue Service, FCT-IRS, has said  it is targeting to generate N146 billion for the FCT Administration through the introduction of Unique Taxpayer Identification Numbers (TINs). Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of FCT-IRS, Mr. Abdullahi Attah, who made this revelation on Friday while addressing a section of the media in Abuja, said FCT-IRS had generated over a million unique identification numbers for individuals and currently in the process of registering other taxpayers and agents. Attah also said  the service had generated N19.6 billion from the month of January to March 2018, while regretting that the first month he assumed office, 50 percent of the tax paid went to Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS). “To achieve this target, the FCT-IRS is working in concert with various data management agencies and has developed a robust taxpayer database based on which unique taxpayer identification numbers were assigned to every taxpayer in the Federal Capital Territory in line with Section 7 (g) of the FCT-IRS Act of 2015,” he said. He further said the service would commenced sending bulk text messages and emails to confirm the validation of taxpayers registration details in the territory this week, adding that it would also start registration of enterprises, sole proprietors and partnership establishments. “Shortly after this, it will be followed by the registration of companies, Ministries, Departments and Agencies, MDAs. The purpose of the exercise is to put in place a verifiable and foolproof taxpayer database that guarantees efficient taxpaying in the Federal Capital Territory whether employed or self-employed. “The bulk text messages and emails, contain basic taxpayer registration information and request each taxpayer to quote the taxpayer identification number in all communications with the service. It is one of its kind in the country and expected to change the face of taxation by according unique and personal recognition to every taxpayer in the FCT whether employed or self-employed,” he explained.