Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, has called on Nigerians to pray for divine intervention in all areas of the nation’s life, especially the wanton killing of innocent Nigerians. Ekweremadu, who made the call in his Easter message to Christians across the country, assured that no matter how troubling the situation is, the resurrection power of the risen Christ can turn around the fortunes of the country. He said: “On the occasion of this Easter celebration, I call for deeper reflections over the affairs of the nation. Let us pray as patriots. Importantly, let us invoke the resurrection powers of the risen Christ to intervene in the affairs of this nation. “Let us pray for an end to the wanton killings and destructions, general insecurity, economic hardship, and hunger in the land. Let us pray God to imbue our leaders, across all political divides, with the milk of human kindness and deep insights to lead the nation well. Let us also pray that God would touch the hearts of our leaders to apply the brakes and end the gale of divisiveness, political intolerance, barefaced oppression, and exclusion that currently pervade the land”. Also, the Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom, has reaffirmed the commitment of his administration to securing lives and property of citizens. Ortom gave the assurance in his Easter message signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase. The governor said Easter is a period when Christians should draw closer to God. The governor maintained that it is in doing so that they (people) can appreciate God’s abundant grace and mercy upon their lives in the face of adversities as he encouraged people of the state not to lose hope. He added that his administration was committed to bringing herdsmen attacks to an end to enable thousands of internally displaced persons currently in eight camps across the state to return to their homes. Ortom said it is only when the people support authorities in building a crime-free society that the government’s efforts of providing development and improved standard of living can fully be achieved.