Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has assured residents of the state that the ongoing reconstruction of the Murtala Muhammed International Airport, Ikeja, road and the Oshodi interchange will be completed by December 2018. Ambode gave the assurance at the on-the-spot assessments he carried out on some of the ongoing projects being executed by his administration. According to the governor, the need for quick completion  of the road had become imperative in view of its strategic location as an entry point into Lagos city in particular, and Nigeria in general. “We just saw the progress of work being done on the Airport Road and I will like to appeal to all Lagos residents that they should bear with us. As much as possible, we will try to reduce the stress this might generate by completing it and the Oshodi interchange by December end. These we hope to present to Lagos residents as Christmas gifts,” Ambode said. The governor also assured payment of compensations to property owners with recognised documents affected by the road construction. He promised that the payment would start any time soon. At the flyover construction site at Pen Cinema, Agege, he saluted the pace of work so far and also promised its completion by December 2018. Meanwhile, Gov Ambode has declared July 1, 2018 as the operation commencement date for the child and maternal section, Ayinke House, Lagos State University Teaching Hospital (LASUTH), Ikeja, saying the building, which is expected to be commissioned by June, must become accessible to the public by the commencement of the next quarter. “This place has been out of use in the last four to five years. It is supposed to be one of the major child and maternal care centres in Lagos State. Currently, it has capacity for 162 bed spaces but that can be expanded to 250. “We are delighted that the project will be completed in May and will become operational in July. We also hope to complete all other projects we have in the health sector, especially the primary health care centres,” he said. At the Lagos State Model College, Sabo, Yaba, Ambode said when completed, the school, with 36 classrooms and nine laboratories, will set a new standard for model colleges in the state. He also assured that in the next two weeks, his administration would embark on massive rehabilitation of public schools in the state. The governor also paid an assessment visit to the Transportation and Entertainment Centre being constructed at the land reclamation section of the Lagos lagoon at Oworonshoki and Bariga. At the Oshodi road interchange, he similarly inspected ongoing projects on parks, recreation centres, hotel and a private partnership mall.