The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai, on Wednesday said the Army would make public the finding of the panel it set up to investigate the allegation of military connivance with herdsmen in Taraba State as alleged by Lt. General Theophilus Danjuma (rtd). Buratai, who was speaking when the panel led by its President, Maj.-Gen. Joseph Nimyel submitted its report, assured that the panel's report into the Taraba crisis would be released to the public in no time for the public to judge, insisting that nothing will be left unturned. At the same event, a panel set up by the army boss to verify the authenticity of arms and ammunition in possession of Army units and formations across the also submitted its report. Receiving the Taraba report, Buratai said: “We will take every aspect of this report very seriously; we will make this report available to the appropriate superior authorities. “We will also make this report available to the media so that they will see clearly what transpired and to see whether the allegations against the military, particularly the Nigerian Army, is grounded or not, if the allegations are true or not.’’ Buratai said making the report available to the public would clarify the allegations. He thanked the committee for their painstaking efforts and sacrifice. He also promised that the recommendations of the panel would be implemented. Buratai said it was necessary to put the record straight and safeguard the army’s integrity as an entity which has important stake in the unity and integrity of the country. Receiving the report of the panel set up to audit the number of arms and weapons in the possession of Army units and formations, Buratai disclosed that his reason for setting up the panel was informed by his concern over proliferation of arms and light weapons not only in Nigeria but also across the country's borders. “You will agree with me that the committee has done justice to the assignment. We will do our best to safeguard our arms and other vital weapons. "Arms verification is not simply as people think it is, however, we will pay special attention to it especially at this period where there's proliferation of arms and light weapons not just in our country but also across our borders. '"This verification will assist us to identify if there's any gaps or loopholes so that we can address the issues immediately. 'We will do our best to preserve our arms and other vital weapons so that they don't get into wrong hands, "he said.