A chieftain of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kaduna State, Dr Muhammad Sani-Bello has called on government to take stern measures to send merchants of illicit drugs out of business, to stem the tides of killings in the country. Sani-Bello who made the call in an interview with the News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) on Thursday in Kaduna said the illicit drug merchants are contributing to the current killings and general insecurity in the country. He noted that easy access to dangerous drugs has turned the youths into addicts and criminals, adding that all lawful means must be adopted by the government to block access to such drugs. “Most crimes are committed under the influence of hard drugs, it is the responsibility of government to control the consumption of hard drugs in the society. “This government is not doing anything. The government must control the consumption of hard drugs especially amongst our youth, so something has to be done to combat the incidence of crime being committed. “The first thing the government must do is to look at the supply end, block it and send the illicit drug merchants out of business. “I am not suggesting a kind of draconian or even a lawless approach but using the instruments of the law to take the drug merchants out. “The government should also embark on serious sensitization and enlightenment; bring in all stakeholders to look at the best way that we can reduce consumption and the availability of these drugs which people buy and consume indiscriminately.’’ Sani-Bello who holds the traditional title of Mainan Zazzau and is a governorship aspirant under the PDP in the state, also spoke on the high rate of kidnappings, armed banditry and attacks by street gangs in the state. He said that certain actions taken by the government of Gov. Nasiru El-Rufa’i had fuelled divisions and suspicion among the people of the state. He therefore said that the government must restore confidence among the people to promote peace and mutual coexistence and end current killings and divisions. He particularly added that the increasing cases of insecurity in the state would only be tackled when the state government promotes the rule of law. “The biggest issue bedevilling Kaduna state today under the APC administration has to do with security, the peaceful coexistence that we use to enjoy is now leaving us as a state. “People of goodwill have been telling the government what it needed to do in order to ensure security of lives and properties and restore harmonious coexistence among the populace. “So I will rather say that if we get the mandate to lead what we are going to do differently is to restore confidence, harmonious coexistence and ensure security of lives and properties. “The only thing that we need to do is ensure good governance, because once there is representation, once you operate within the ambit of the rule of law, once there is transparency and accountability, there is going to be harmony and security.’’ “Those not ready to conform to the law must be arrested and brought to book. “However, we have seen a situation where some people who are known not to conform to good conduct are let go by the government.’’ The Mainan Zazzau alleged that the maiming and killings during the recent primaries of the ruling party for its local councils’ candidates was worrisome as the state government had done “nothing to those responsible.’’