Fourteen people believed to be Tiv residents have been killed and dozens of cattle rustled in fresh hostilities between Fulani herders and Tiv farmers in villages of Keana, Obi and Awe local government areas of Nasarawa State. Daily Trust gathered that the area had been tense since the killing of Fulani travelers at a border with Benue State and the security situation worsened yesterday with the news of the killing of 14 people around villages in Obi LGA following alleged killing of a herder and his cattle on Sunday by suspected Tiv farmers. The President of Tiv Development Association (TIDA), Boniface Ifei, told Daily Trust that the security situation in Obi yesterday got out of hand and they received reports of killing of over seven people in a rampage by suspected herders. “I can’t give the exact figures of casualties at the moment but I know of 14 people because from Thursday to this hour I am talking to you, 14 people were killed, all Tiv ethnic nationalities.” Ifei said many people had gone missing and most of the areas had been deserted. “Many people have been trapped in this dangerous area. We are appealing to both federal and state governments to urgently intervene and provide security,” he said. On his own, the Nasarawa State Chairman of Miyatti Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria (MACBAN), Muhammed Hussaini, said that Tiv militia yesterday stormed Obi and part of Keana LGAs armed to the teeth on a killing spree, killing any Fulani herder they found on their way and destroying their houses. Hussaini alleged that the Tiv militia in Nasarawa conspired with their kinsmen from Benue State and masterminded the deadly attacks which had left many people dead and cows rustled. “As I am talking to you, seven corpses were taken to the Divisional Police Office in Keana while many other corpses were left scattered in the bush,” Hussaini said. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state, DSP Idrisu Kennedy, said, “I have not been briefed on the number of casualties in the skirmishes but we got the report of the incident and the command had deployed its personnel to restore law and order in the affected areas.”