Can you give us an overview of your activities so far? We have about 800,000 Nigerians on treatment when we started in July, 2016 but it has increased to 1,066,000. That means a million plus has been added. We estimate that we have about 3 million Nigerians that should access HIV treatments and in as much we have a million Nigerians on treatment that means we still have 2 million to go. That is what we are working on currently and we would like to hasten the progress. Back in September, President Muhammadu Buhari announced that the government would be putting 50,000 Nigerians every year on treatment, courtesy of the Nigerian government in addition to the 60,000 that we already have in Taraba and Abia. At the moment 95 per cent of those accessing treatment are mostly funded by the US government and the Global Fund. Only about five per cent is funded by the Nigerian government. What plan do you have on ground to tackle the present issue? We hope to launch a national treatment program towards the end of the year hopefully with the Federal Ministry of Health (FMoH) which would completely change the alignment. We would have more government involvement and be able to channel funds more effectively and also harmonise the budget that exists between NACA and the FMoH. In the long run, HIV needs to be integrated into the health care system rather than to be treated as a single and separate disease on its own. This is so that if you go to hospital, for instance, the same physician that is treating hypertension can also look after you that have HIV. What is the criteria for the selection of these 50, 000 patients living with HIV that will access treatment? Five states are currently working with the partners in which they have hundreds of patients but it’s a very small number and we are still waiting for the budget to be passed and it is presidential directive  and NACA would ensure that it is followed, we might not do 50,000 this year but it is achievable next year. The issue is how HIV treatment is funded in the country.  What we have here is a top solution by our external donors and what we are saying is that we would work with the state governments to get this problem sorted and we cannot continue to have a system where 95 per cent of Nigerians living with HIV are paying for treatment through external bodies which is not right as a country. The earlier issue with Global Fund, we have understood where the problems were and we have corrected them. If we do not deal with the HIV funding now in the next few years we are going to have a lot of problems. What is NACA doing to ensure that the issue of MTCT is duly tackled and infected mothers do not abandon their treatment? The issue of Mother-to-Child Transmission (MTCT) of HIV is proving really stubborn and is not going away in Nigeria because a large proportion of babies born with HIV in the world are from Nigeria. A pregnant woman ideally coming for antenatal care should not be asked if she will only do an HIV test. But the test should be included among the condiments of carrying out tests which in the long run we would achieve a lot but also in the short run we would move up scale with treatment of HIV and sustainability in the health sector. The MTCT of HIV is paramount and the stumbling block is the way our mothers approach the health facilities because where the others actually go for antenatal 80 per cent do not have access and they are the ones that are very difficult to get. Some of ours partners have actually set up unique skills where you have care for mothers that would then go into the communities and bring the mother to be tested and we also have community care support groups where they support the community with care and identify mothers that are pregnant and make sure that they are brought under the health care.