The Oshodi transport interchange being constructed by the Lagos State government, in conjunction with Planet Project, will be completed in October 2018 having reached 70 per cent completion level, it has been revealed. The project, when operational, will serve 300,000 commuters every day, while the state government will remove the over 20 rickety motor parks in the densely populated area of Oshodi. The Managing Director of Planet Project, Abiodun Otunola, disclosed these at the weekend during a tour of transport infrastructures in the state, including the Ikeja Bus Terrminal recently commissioned by President Muhammadu Buhari. The tour was led by the Commissioner for Transport, Mr Ladi Lawanson, and his Information and Strategy counterpart, Mr Kehinde Bamigbetan, as well as the Managing Director of the Lagos Metropolitan Area Transport Authority (LAMATA), Engineer Abiodun Dabiri, and that of the Lagos Bus Services, Mr Idowu Oguntona. The Ikeja terminal was one of the 13 terminals conceived by the state government to remodel public transportation in Lagos and optimize the sparse landmass of the state. The Commissioner for Transport disclosed that about 800 buses that would serve the terminals would arrive soon. He said, “We expected to have this type of terminal, at least 13 of them. I’m sure you are all aware that we have one operational at the TBS already, while that at Oshodi is ongoing. We have in Yaba, we have in Ilupeju. “The idea is to make access to efficient and effective transportation available to most classes of Lagosians, especially those in the lower and middle income brackets who cannot afford to fund their own private cars every day. So this is one of such efforts.” At the Oshodi interchange, the project contractor disclosed that it has three terminals, with terminal 1 serving the inter-city segment. Terminal 2 will serve the BRT lane from Abule Egba to Oshodi and other destinations like Mile 2, Okokomaiko and the likes, while Terminal 3 will serve Lagos Island and the Ikorodu-Ojota axis.