President Muhammadu Buhari has appointed heads of agencies in the Federal ministries of Health, Information and Culture, Education, Power, Works, and Housing, and Resident Electoral Commissioners (RECs) in the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). The Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF) Mr Boss Gida Mustapha made the announcement in a statement signed on his behalf by the Director Information, Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) Lawrence Ojabo. Those appointed as medical directors are; Dr Abdulkareem Jika Yusuf Federal Neuropsychiatric Hospital Kaduna, Dr Abubakar Musa, Federal Medical Centre, Nguru Yobe State and Dr Abdullahi Ibrahim, Federal Medical Centre Azare Bauchi State. Others are Dr Nasir Ibrahim Umar, National Obstetric Fistula Centre, Bauchi, Dr Iliasu Adeagbo Ahmed, Federal Medical Centre, Owo Ondo State and Dr Aliyu Muhammad El-Ladan, National Obstetric Fistula Centre Katsina. Those appointed as Polytechnic Rectors are; Dr Baba David Danjuma Federal Polytechnic Idah Kogi State, Dr Usman M. Kallamu, Federal Polytechnic, Damaturu Yobe State, Dr Jimah Momodu Sanusi, Federal Polytechnic, Auchi, Edo State, Dr Dayo Hephzibah Oladebeye, Federal Polytechnic, Ado Ekiti, Ekiti State and Arch Sanusi Gumau, Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi, Bauchi State. Others are, Tomunomi M. Abbey, Federal Polytechnic, Oil and Gas Bonny, Rivers State, Omokungbe Obafemi Omoseni, Yaba College of Technology, Lagos and Faruk Rashid Haruna Provost Federal College of Education, Kontagora, Niger State. Usman Gur Mohammed has also been appointed as Managing Director Transmission Company of Nigeria, (TCN). Dr (Mrs) Stella Morounmubo Oyedepo was appointed as the General-Manager National Theatre, Lagos. “With this appointment, the President has separated the leadership of the National Theater from National Troupe of Nigeria,” the statement said. Those appointed as RECs are; Emmanuel Alex Hart, Mohammed Magaji Ibrahim, Cyril Omorogbe, Uthman Abdulrahman Ajidaba, Segun Agbaje, Baba Abba Yusuf and Yahaya Bello. The statement said the RECs will be sworn in by INEC Chairman at INEC Headquarters on Tuesday, April 17, 2018.