There are about 19,000 adolescents and young persons (AYPs) are living with HIV/AIDS in Kaduna state, the executive secretary of the State AIDS control Agency (KADSACA), Dr. Mark David Anthony has said.  He said this at the AYP HIV intervention stakeholders review meeting organized by UNICEF in collaboration with the AIDS Agency. According to him, previous responses to HIV/AIDS had targeted adults while the young persons were subsumed under the adult response. “Gradually, the prevalence rate among adolescents increased,”  “This ugly situation made the National AIDS Control Agency (NACA) in collaboration with UNICEF to come up with strategies targeted at adolescents where services are provided by the adolescents and young persons themselves after they have been trained to mobilize their fellow young persons to access services in form of demand creators,” he explained.  He further mentioned that AYPs between ages of 10-24 were also trained to provide HIV test as well as counseling to young people. ”We were also able to identify AYP friendly facilities where this group of people can access services,” he added, stressing the need to also involve traditional rulers, religious leaders and policy makers among others to provide moral, financial and technical support as the case may be.  The meeting he said seeks to ensure shared understanding of AYP HIV intervention amongst key stakeholders, to disseminate the national AYP intervention roll out strategy for Kaduna state as well as to enable participants have a shared understanding of their roles in the implementation of the AYP interventions in the state.  Earlier in an interview, Idris Baba of UNICEf, Kaduna mentioned that the present HIV interventions in Kaduna focuses on only Local government areas including Jaba, Jema’a, Lere, Igabi, Birnin-Gwari, Kagarko and Chikun; explaining that they were prioritized based on certain identified factors.  He said the meeting will help stakeholders deliberate on how to further improve the interventions to reduce HIV prevalence among the targeted group of people in the state. Meanwhile, the district head of Salaman Jaba, Iliya Bagode who represented Jaba traditional council blamed ignorance and fear of stigma for the high prevalence of HIV in Jaba, saying with the awareness now, the prevalence is coming down.