The National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA) said it has started its first set of Women in ICT training.  The training, according to Director General of NITDA Dr Isa Ali Ibrahim Pantami, is part of the agency’s continuous efforts aimed at supporting the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan (ERGP) of the administration of President Muhammadu Buhari.  He said the first batch of the programme had been scheduled to hold in the North West region and was aimed at training 100 women, create 300 hundred direct jobs and over 1000 indirect jobs. The training has started Wednesday, he said.    It may be recalled that the ERGP has three broad objectives - restoring growth, investing in the Nigerian people, and building a globally competitive economy.  “It is obvious that women have unequal access to economic opportunities than men, thus NITDA believes technology can be used to bridge the gap.  “Key objectives of the programme include boosting digital literacy, creating digital jobs, bridging the digital divide, promoting digital inclusion, and using technology to address gender imbalance in economic opportunities.  “Statistics have shown that women’s participation in ICT is less than 24 per cent and we in NITDA are determined to bridge the gap through special training programmes for women in addition to the usual ICT capacity development activities of which both men and women are given equal opportunities’’, Dr Pantami said in a statement Wednesday.  The four weeks training programme, according to him, focuses on key ICT skill areas including entrepreneurship development, business management, ICT and communication.  In line with Mr President’s commitment to sustainable human capital development, the programme is fully funded and participants will be provided with first class accommodation, feeding and healthcare services for the duration of the training. In addition, each participant will also receive customised laptop computer system, stipend and other tools to aid their future pursuits.