The National Association of Nigerian Students (NANS) has declared Kaduna Polytechnic as unconducive for learning due to the dilapidated nature of structures in the institution.  Jointly addressing newsmen in Kaduna yesterday, the national assistant secretary general of NANS and senate president of National Association of Polytechnic Students (NAPS), Comrade Abdulmajeed O. Oyeniyi and Adekanbi Sunday respectively decried what they described as infrastructural decay, saying it has rendered the polytechnic unconducive for learning.  Having conducted an official tour round the campus, the students called on the Federal government to as a matter of urgency address the issue of dilapidated infrastructures, particularly hostels on the Polytechnic campuses.  They also called on the chairmen, House committee on education in both the senate and the house of representative to set up a committee to as a matter of urgency look into the issue of dilapidation on campuses, particularly, Kaduna Polytechnic.  The students however commended the efforts of the new management of the institution but noted that the level of dilapidation is beyond relying on internally generated revenue to fix.  “Meeting with the management of the polytechnic, we observed high sense of commitment to academic excellence, security, reviving the dilapidated infrastructure, establishment of centre of technology development and to create job through entrepreneurship,”  “The major striking feature is the first of its kind policy and transparency unit to check corruption in the system and issues of total quality management. The effort of management in turning around the fortunes of the polytechnic is worthy of emulation,” the association said.  NANS therefore called on all prominent alumni of the Polytechnic including the former head of state, General Abdulsalam Abubakar; wife of the former vice president, Amina Titi Atiku; former minister of women affairs, Hajiya Zainab Maina; Minister of Defence, General Mansur Dan Ali; Senator Shehu Sani, Senator Kabiru G. Marafa; Senator Abdullahi Adamu and Senator Rabiu Kwankwanso among others to look back and come and rescue their alma-mater from total collapse.  The rector of the Polytechnic, Professor Idris M. Bugaje upon assumption into office last year described the condition of the polytechnic hostels as worse than a war zone; saying they are not conducive for learning.