The Kogi State Youths Employment and Social Support Operation (YESSO) supported by the World Bank, has launched a Single Register (SR) of 116,080 poorest of the poor and vulnerable individuals captured across the state through its Community Based Targeting (CBT) approach. Speaking at the launch of the programme in Lokoja, the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, said the Single Register has become a “card reader” for recording and attending to the needs of the ‘core poor and vulnerable’ in the state. He said the register has also assisted in eliminating the problem of the past in accessing data to deal with such kind of people. Bello, who was represented by his deputy, Elder Simon Achuba, said the state government will release N150 million to YESSO, to assist the agency in carrying out its responsibility to the poor. Speaking on the SR, the Head of Service, Mrs Deborah Ogunmola, said 22,241 households and 116, 080 individuals were captured in the register. “International best practices in addressing social protection and vulnerability issues in the 21st century demand the use of a reliable and updated Single Register which is location specific for effective and efficient implementation devoid of error of inclusion and exclusion. “This register includes both geographical and community - based targeting approach by Kogi State YESSO, using the World Bank model. The register went through series of vetting and validation by the World Bank before it was subsequently approved. “Kogi YESSO was able to undertake three rounds of both geographical and community - based targeting and succeeded in capturing the 21 LGAs in the state into this Single Register. “This register composed of three volumes has a total of 22,241 households with 116,080 individuals across the 21 LGAs of Kogi State. Kogi YESSO is currently expanding it”, she said. Meanwhile, the World Bank has urged the state to ensure the implementation of the Single Register, saying that is the only way efforts expended in gathering the data can be justified. The Country Director of the World Bank, Rachid Benmessaoud, who spoke on behalf of the organisation lauded the state government for the development. “No doubt, the Single Register will go a long way in reducing poverty and unemployment in the state. But its validity is best when it is put to use. “Many times when data like this is captured, political intrigues and other purposes will make it be jettisoned whenever its meant to be used. “We therefore urge you to make effective use of the Single Register through which interested individuals can have confidence to invest in the core poor and vulnerable in our land”, he said.