Senator Dino Melaye ((APC, Kogi) has said that he would make himself available to police today. The embattled senator representing Kogi West disclosed this via his Twitter handle. "I will make myself available to the police today. My resolve to speak the truth and defend the poor masses of NIGERIA is Total. We shall overcome!!!," he posted Policemen yesterday laid siege to the Abuja residence of  Melaye. Melaye who was arrested at the Nnamdi Azikiwe International Airport, Abuja around 7:30am yesterday ‘escaped’ from the custody of the immigration officials after about an hour. Daily Trust gathered that Melaye was on his way to Morocco alongside Deputy Senate President Ike Ekweremadu, when the immigration officials arrested him. In a phone interview at about 7:50am, Melaye said, “I was at the departure lounge when they called me that my attention was needed by the officials of the Immigration. When I got there, they told me I’m under arrest on the request of the Police.” Hours later, Melaye was at his residence at number 11 Sangha Street, Maitama, Abuja. The circumstances of his exit from the Airport security were not clear at the time of this report. A source close to the Kogi lawmaker said, “He (Melaye) dribbled the immigration officials to escape from their net. They circled him and they were waiting for the police. I think that was when he left.” Our correspondent reports that around 2p.m combat ready policemen barricaded both sides of the street. Two patrol vans were parked at one side, while a Toyoto Hiace bus was used to block the other side. Policemen and plain cloth security men were seen around 7p.m when our correspondent left. By 6:40pm, a truckload of policemen arrived the street. The phone number of Melaye was unreachable for further comment last night. A source said he was still inside his residence. The atmosphere at the highbrow area was tense. The police had last month declared Melaye wanted over issues related to the supply of guns to thugs in Kogi State. On his Twitter handle, Melaye said around 9:30pm yesterday that;  “ All my policemen have been taken away with their arms. One CP came and took them away. There is also a plan to set me up again. But in God I trust. Truth will always prevail.”