The Minister of Youth and Sports, Barrister Solomon Dalung has charged Team Nigeria athletes to put up a brilliant show at the 2018 Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast Australia so as to exceed the country’s previous performances at the games. Dalung, who was addressing the athletes at a reception ceremony at the Games Village, said, “In this Games, Nigerians are expecting nothing short of surpassing their record in the last games.” He also charged them to compete fairly without tarnishing the image of the country, stressing that they should be good ambassadors of the country as much is expected from whom much is given. “I see you are all in high spirit and it shows that you have prepared for the competition. The President, the father of the nation has sent his special greetings and to inspire Team Nigeria. It is the President’s wish, that at the end of our sojourn here, the name of Nigeria will be great. Mr President also said that he will be very happy to receive clean medals even if they’re of the lowest cadre than ten tainted medals. The Permanent Secretary of the Ministry Mr Olusade Adesola also urged the athletes to give their best as they have been motivated to make Nigerians proud. “You will agree with me that we have never had it so good. You’ve all been paid your pre-games camping allowances and all your entitlements will be given to you here.” Each gold medalist will receive $5,000, silver medalist will attract $3,000 and while bronze meanwhile, organizers of the XXI Commonwealth Games in Gold Coast Australia officially held a welcome ceremony for Team Nigeria at the Games village yesterday. The athletes who were entertained by a dance troupe from the Munujali tribe watched from the sideline as the Nigerian flag was raised and the National Anthem sang. A commemorative indigenous shield was presented to the Minister of Youth and Sports, Barrister Solomon Dalung while Team Nigeria in return presented the talking drum to their hosts. The Minister who expressed his delight for the ceremony which brought together all participating athletes, stated that “what we have seen here today basically is to express the bond of friendship which exists amongst athletes”, adding that “the spirit of togetherness expressed by people who have just met themselves for the first time here suggests the fact that the bond is very strong. “I think that the Commonwealth needs to go back to its initial concept of investing in youth development, providing scholarships and according opportunities to young people to travel across the Commonwealth.”