Officials of the Nigeria Customs Service (NCS) in charge of the Federal Operations Unit Zone A, Ikeja, said they have arrested 10 persons involved in smuggling activities in Lagos and Ogun states. The suspects were arrested for their alleged involvement in the smuggling of over 86 different items through the border between Nigeria and the Benin Republic. The Controller, Federal Operations Unit, Mohammed Uba, said items recovered from the suspects included 2,671 bags of 50kg rice. Uba said that the bags of rice were evacuated from nine makeshift storage houses in Ilogbo, Abeokuta, the Ogun State capital. According him, the seizures were made based on credible intelligence despite resistance from other smugglers around the area. He said, “Let me warn all established smugglers and the intending ones and their accomplices to desist from such malpractices and invest their money in legitimate businesses, as the unit has devised other operational modalities that will give them a run for their money, because they will count their losses and finally end in jail. The 10 suspects will soon be charged to court. “During the operation, there was mob attack against our operatives. But that never deterred us from performing our statutory responsibilities. Thank God there was no casualty. We will continue to enforce the Federal Government policies banning the importation of rice and other prohibited goods through the land borders regardless of any situation so as to encourage efficiency in local rice production, which will create more employment opportunities for our teeming youths.” The controller said an additional four 3x40ft and 1x20ft containers were seized for different Customs breaches in the importation process. According to him, the 1x20ft container no. CSNU 106087/4 carried 2,260 cartons of Gonca Spagetti made in Turkey and 530 packages of Rifle energy drinks made in Europe, rather than baking powder that the importers declared. Uba said that further investigation revealed that the container was not properly cleared, adding that all those found culpable in the illegal deal would face the full wrath of the law. “While a 1x40ft container no. PCIU 865957/1 was seized for carrying 200 cartons of ladies shoes and 134 cartons of children’s wears, among other items, as against keyboard and mouse declared in the SGD, another 1x40ft container no. FCIU 80992/0 was seized for carrying 2,300 cartons of Tiffany chocolate and 385 cartons of Tiffany Crunch ‘n’ Cream biscuit as against Tapet for fuel pump declared. These are clear cases of false declarations, liable to seizure and forfeiture,” he said.