The Daily Trust’s entertainment reporter, Bashir Liman has bagged the 2017 Youth Media Forum International’s Best Reporter in West Africa Award.

Youth Media Forum International (YMFI) is a non-governmental organization with its headquarters in Ghana and branches in Nigeria, Niger Republic and Cameroun. 

The organisation was established two years ago with the purpose of rewarding musicians, filmmakers and journalists who have excelled in their fields and professions.

The presentation of award took place at Chinese Garden in Jos during the weekend and was attended by filmmakers, politicians and journalists.

While presenting the award to the Daily Trust’s reporter, the International Chairman of the organization, Mr. Abdulkarim Mostafa – a Ghanaian, said that the reporter won the award as result of his professionalism, fairness and upholding ethical conducts of journalism.

He said, “Our organization has tracked what Bashir Liman has been doing for the period of three years, we were able to get most of his stories from allafrica.com, Daily Trust and Hausa newspaper, Aminiya.

“We noticed he wrote fluently both in English and Hausa. He has been writing entertainment, sports, literature, political, law and other general stories,” he said.

Mr. Mostafa added there was a time the reporter handled Mujallar Zinariya – a Hausa magazine that entails Fashion, Make-Up, Delicacies and Womanhood among others, “and he handled it exceptionally more than what another woman can do.”

He explained that not all journalists can write both in English and Hausa and some of them only specialized on particular sections like sports, entertainment or business stories, but the reporter has excelled on several bits.

 “We also seek the opinions of his colleagues on the Plateau and they rated him high.” He said.

In his remarks, the Daily Trust’s reporter, Bashir Liman dedicated the award to management and staff of Media Trust – publishers of Daily Trust and Aminiya titles for giving him favourable playing ground and equipping him with all the necessary gadgets he needs for his journalism job