Normalcy has returned to Akure, the Ondo State capital, after last Sunday’s clash between Hausa and Yoruba residents of Sabo-Odojoka area following the intervention of the state government and the Deji of Akure, Oba Ogunlade Aladelusi II. The monarch and representatives of the state government condemned the attack and visited the area even when tension was still high on Monday to access the level of damage and talk to warring groups. Ondo State Governor Arakunrin Rotimi Akuredolu, who was represented by his deputy, Mr. Agboola Ajayi, appealed to the Hausa community and their hosts to maintain peace. The Deji of Akure, in the company of some high chiefs, visited the area and appealed for calm. He warned his people not to make life difficult for the Hausas while also warning the Hausa community not to do same to Akure people. The monarch, who said the people were one, promised to convene a meeting of all the groups involved and meet with the state government to ensure that the peace being enjoyed in the state capital continued. The meeting, Daily Trust learnt, was organized by the state government shortly afterwards and the various groups were invited. The Elijoka, Chief Taiwo Afolabi, who is the traditional head of the Sabo-Odojoka, said for a good number of days, the Akure community went on air to announce that the Egungun (masquerade) festival would be celebrated that day and residents should stay off the streets. Chief Afolabi, whose car was set ablaze alongside four others during the clash, said the celebration was just for one day and was not new to residents. When Daily Trust visited the area yesterday, it was observed that business and commercial activities had resumed. Efforts to speak to some of the Hausa residents were rebuffed as they claimed the issue had been settled. A woman who died during the clash identified as Mama Lekan was buried on Thursday. She was said to have gone in search of her son while the fight was on and fell, dying instantly. The Commissioner for Information, Yemi Olowolabi, said the state government was able to talk to the various groups to ensure peace. The state police command spokesman, Femi Joseph, had earlier told Daily Trust that the command had ordered a high level investigation into the matter, but not be reached at the time of filing this report for the outcome of the investigations. It would be recalled that the crisis started between traditionalists who were observing the Egungun Isopo festival and some Hausa traders. The Egungun (masquerades) and traditional worshippers were said to have confronted a Hausa man pushing wheelbarrow and attempted to pass through their midst. He was said to have been flogged by the masquerade. The Hausa man, supported by some of his kinsmen, fought the masquerade and removed its mask, an act regarded as an abomination. For several hours, there was commotion everywhere as dangerous weapons were freely used in the fight by both parties.