Hi there! This week, Tambari Extra is brimming with content to keep you hooked. We’re sharing with you how you can make your own bath bombs on the beauty page, and all you need to know about in healthy living. On the cover this week we have Hajiya Mariya Adamu Nyako, the Registrar of Adamawa State Polytechnic, Yola and Zinariyar Mayo Belwa. She gives us a look at her life in details. Read more to find out all she had to share. Have a wonderful Sunday. Educational and career background I was born on June 27, 1964, in Mayo Belwa Local Government Area of Adamawa State. I attended Elementary Primary School, Mayo Belwa, from 1970 to 1976, and later proceeded to Queen Elizabeth Secondary School, Ilorin, from 1976 to 1981. I got a BSc in Home Economics from the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, in 1989, a Post Graduate Diploma (PGD) in Education from the University of Jos in 1995 and a Masters in Education Management (M.Ed) from Modibbo Adama University of Technology, Yola (MAUTECH) in 2007. I started my career as a teacher with the Adamawa State Post Primary Schools Management Board (PPSMB) in 1990 and later became the Vice Principal of Government Day Secondary School, Army Barracks, Yola, in 1996. From there I became the Director, Family Support Programme (FSP), from 1998 to 1999. In the same year I was appointed principal and I stayed in that position up to 2006. In 2008, I was appointed the Executive Secretary, Scholarship Board, and in 2008, Executive Director, Scholarship Trust Fund, then Deputy Permanent Secretary, Trust Fund. Aside my career, I have just been given the traditional title of “Zinariyar Mayo Belwa”, meaning “Gold of Mayo Belwa”. Growing up In those days, life was very easy. We started with Qur’anic education and we enjoyed travelling at night due to its safety. There was nothing like kidnapping or armed robbery then. Life was flowing like a peaceful river. Challenges One of the major challenges I have faced in life is the type of work I do. The positions I have held so far, up to the stage of registrar, have been tedious and demanding to the extent that I hardly spare time for myself. I usually go to work as early as 8am and close by 6pm every day. I have limited time for my family. Life lessons I have learnt to be simple and honest when dealing with people, and to be very prayerful. Aspirations growing up I had always aspired to be a teacher. When I was in JSS 2, a teacher came to our class and asked what we would like to become in future and I told her I would like to become a teacher. Since then my classmates have been calling me “Village Headmistress”. Till date they still call me that. Childhood memories As kids, we so much enjoyed going to the river and playing with water. I am the type that loves bathing with cold water. There was a day I got ice blocks put them in bucket and bathed with the chilled water. When my parents learnt about it, I was beaten I’ll never forget that day. My typical day I am always occupied; doing one thing or the other. Its either I am attending to my staff or doing some office work. I spend the day working or surfing the net. I am the busy type. Most cherished gift It was my first car from my husband; it was a Darkson Cherry. He asked me to close my eyes and when we went outside the house he unfolded my eyes and boom! It was a car! I was overwhelmed by the gift because I could never have asked for more and never expected it. How I met my husband We started dating during my secondary school days. He proposed. It was a yes! And we got married; simple! Most cherished attribute of his He is very simple, honest, straight forward and stands his ground on truth and honesty. Joys of motherhood My motherhood experience is a dream come true and I cannot quantify or describe the joy I felt when I had my first baby. Favourite travel destination Saudi Arabia; because it is a place of worship. Whenever I am in Saudi Arabia, I feel some closeness to my creator and fulfilled. First app I check in the morning The first app I check on my phone in the morning is WhatsApp. I read and reply messages. How I relax I relax by watching interesting movies, news and reading newspapers in order to help me know the happenings within and outside my surrounding. Top things on my wish list I have always wished my children will treat me the way I treated my parents. To train and empower 20 less privileged people; which I have started with nine. I want them to have a sense of belonging in order to be educated and self-reliant. I wish to part well and fairly with my children just like I did with my parents. Favourite kind of music on replay I love listening to old school; whichever one, once they are old school, I listen to them. Music reminds one of events just as food and perfumes remind us. Favourite food I love plain jollof rice. My definition of style Wearing anything which I feel comfortable in; I don’t go with what’s in vogue. My style is simplicity. Favourite fashion designer T-J Favourite perfume Red door by Elizabeth Arden. Flats or heels Flat shoes. Mum’s advice that has stuck with me over the years I happen to be the first born of the family, my mum always advised me to take care of my younger ones. The advice still sticks with me because she is late now and I am trying my best to stick to that advice. Favourite colour Yellow Favourite sport Wrestling. Favourite weather Cold weather. Favourite day of the week I like Saturdays, because I am less busy. Beauty routine None; I wash my face before going to bed. Life achievements To start with, I parted well and fairly with my parents because there would not be a better achievement in life than that. I have won more than 20 awards: Civil Servant Per Excellence courtesy of the Association of Former Councilors in Adamawa State (AFCAS), Award Excellence in recognition of my contribution to the development of education in Adamawa State and Nigeria at large given to me by  MAUTECH students, Certificate of International Seminar by the Learning Community, India, a certificate by the West African Institute of Gender Studies (WIGS) London and I have just been turbaned “Zinariyan Mayo Belwa”. I have reached the position of permanent secretary in the civil service. Role model(s) Mrs. Bongi; she is very intelligent. Looking back, what I would tell a younger me Be a good citizen, dedicated to your parents and be someone that everyone will be proud of at the end of the day.