Many people are said to have been killed and several buildings burnt in a border  clash yesterday  between the people of Iheosu village,  Isu clan in Arochukwu Local Government Area of Abia State and  their neighbours from Utuma in Biase Local Government Area of Cross River State. A native of the community who introduced himself as Nicholas Igwe Kalu, told our correspondent that the deaths and destruction to properties occurred in Isu clan. He said that the community had been deserted as men, women and children had fled the area for safety. He traced the skirmishes to an ongoing grading of road being done by Ibeto Group which discovered limestone in Isu. He said the Utuma people had increased the tempo of their attacks on Isu clan since the discovery of limestone in the area was made public. He alleged that the Utuma people, in collaboration with others from Biase, abducted some Isu people and emissaries sent to appeal to them against disrupting the road grading project. He said that in reaction, Isu people abducted some Utuma people but explained that both sides released their captives following the intervention of the military. “After that, they went and reinforced and launched an attack with sophisticated weapons, killing and destroying houses.” He said as many as 10 people died, but the police could not confirm this. A  source in the Office of the Deputy Governor, Sir Ude Oko Chukwu, currently the acting governor, said the incident had been brought to his attention. “The Special Assistant on Security Matters brought the information to the Deputy Governor who called his Cross River counterpart and they discussed about the issue. “He then alerted the Commissioner of Police here and the Area Commander, Ohafia which controls Arochukwu. So, they took some remedial measures and reported back to him that the situation was under control” The state Commissioner of Police, Anthony Ogbizi, denied the casualty figure, saying that he had directed that the number of casualty be sent to his office.