The Zonal Vice Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Gombe State, Mr Julius Ishaya, has accused the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) led administration of hijacking the federal government’s Social Investment Programme (SIP) in the state. Mr Ishaya told newsmen in Gombe, that the programme was not being implemented properly, alleging that the PDP hijacked it and excluded APC members from benefitting from the scheme. “Unfortunately, we don’t have an APC government in Gombe. The PDP-led government that was entrusted with the SIP, is biased in implementation of the programme. “They have excluded APC members from benefiting from our own programme. For instance, the school feeding programme which was meant to, among other things, take care of the nutritional needs of our children in schools, empower farmers in local communities along the value chain, has been hijacked. The PDP in Gombe deliberately chose their members and empowered them as vendors,” he alleged. Ishaya said Senator Muhammad Danjuma Goje was misunderstood when he asked questions about the implementation of the SIPs. “Senator Goje’s intention which I believe is the same with that of President Muhammadu Buhari, was to ensure better implementation of the policy all over the country. “Goje’s concern was that the PDP government in Gombe is making a mess of the programme,” Ishaya added. He accused the members of the PDP of adopting desperate measures, by politicising his (Goje) recent comment, in order to cover “their shady deals”. The zonal vice chairman also hailed President Buhari for declaring his intention to seek re-election in 2019, saying the party in the state under the leadership of Senator Goje is behind him. However, the state Commissioner for Information and Orientation, Alhaji Umar Ahmed Nafada, debunked the allegation by the APC, describing it as unfounded. The commissioner said the beneficiaries of the Conditional Cash Transfer (CCT) and vendors under the school feeding programme were selected irrespective of their party affiliation. He said: “The list of beneficiaries of the CCT who are the poorest of the poor in the society are submitted by leaders of their respective communities in the three pilot LGAs of Balanga, Nafada and Yamaltu Deba. “The list contained names of all those who qualified irrespective of party affiliation and was submitted to the SIP office in Abuja, which later verified and selected those who are receiving the N5000 stipend monthly. “Likewise, in the school feeding programme, people were asked to fill forms after which they were selected and engaged as food vendors and people across party lines are benefitting.”