The International police organisation, Interpol, has given reasons why Senator Dino, Melaye declared wanted by the Nigerian police has not been publicly placed on its watch list yet.

Interol maintained that it does not engage in politically-motivated operations.

The Nigerian police had on March 28 declared Dino Melaye, a member of the All Progressives Congress representing Kogi East Senatorial District, and seven others wanted; on allegations of criminal conspiracy. 

The police also said Interpol had been alerted to place Mr. Melaye and other suspects, including Mohammed Audu, son of late Kogi politician Abubakar Audu, on its watch list.

But six days after the announcement, neither Mr. Melaye nor any of the remaining suspects had appeared on the red notice board on the Interpol’s website.

As one of the 192 member countries with active membership of the Interpol network, the police in Nigeria said Mr. Melaye was placed on Interpol red notice.

A red notice is an alert for Interpol to locate and temporarily detain an individual pending extradition. It is issued and often published by the international crime-fighting organisation at the request of a member country or an international tribunal based on a valid national arrest warrant.

Although Interpol said it “does not comment on specific cases or individuals except in special circumstances and with approval of the member country concerned,” the agency listed reasons why Nigeria police request for Mr. Melaye, if at all it had been formally filed, might not meet its criteria for red alert.

“INTERPOL examines requests by member countries to issue Red Notices to ensure compliance with INTERPOL’s constitution or rules. This includes Article 3 of INTERPOL’s Constitution, according to which it is ‘strictly forbidden for the organisation to undertake any intervention or activities of a political, military, religious or racial character,'” the agency said in response to a March 28 e-mail from PREMIUM TIMES.

“INTERPOL evaluates legal and quality compliance issues in individual cases if it becomes aware of information that may prompt reevaluation of a case,” it added.