The Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) is to arraign the former governor of Katsina state, Alhaji Ibrahim Shehu Shema over alleged laundering of N5, 776,552,396 meant for the Subsidy Re-Investment and Empowerment Programme (SURE-P).

The former governor would appear before Justice Babagana Ashgar of the Federal High court Katsina on the 23rd of April, 2018 for 26-count charge bordering on conspiracy and money laundering.

A statement from the EFCC Kano Zonal Office, signed by its spokesperson, Idris Nadabo, indicated that case was filed by the
commission on the 26th March, 2018.

The commission alleged that the fund was removed from the Katsina state SUPRE-P account by Shema when he was governor of the state.

Also party in the suit was one Alhaji Idris Kwado, who is now at large. The man was alleged to have connived with former governor to commit the crime, the statement, revealed.

The charge sheet reads in parts, “You Ibrahim Shehu Shema whilst being the Executive Governor of Katsina State on or about the 17th February, 2014 at Katsina, within the jurisdiction of this honourable court did indirectly control the sum of N502,216,400 withdrawn from Katsina State SURE-P account.

“The Money is meant for peace education, advocacy and mediation programme which money you ought to have known forms part of the proceeds of an unlawful act to wit; fraud and thereby committed an offence contrary to Section 15(2) (d) of the Money Laundering (Prohibition) Act, 2011 (as amended) and punishable under Section 15(3) of the same Act.”

The statement recalled that the former governor had already facing criminal prosecution before a Katsina State High court over alleged diversion of N11bn from the coffers of Katsina state government.

Other parties in the suit were former Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs Alhaji Sani Hamisu Makana, former Permanent Secretary of the ministry Alhaji Lawai Rufai and former Chairman of the Association of Local Governments of Nigeria (ALGON) Katsina state chapter, Alhaji Ibrahim Lawal Dankaba.