Local government vice chairmen in the country have kicked against what they called “a relegated status” allegedly given to them by their principals. The council vice chairmen, under the umbrella of the Association of Local Government Vice Chairmen of Nigeria, said they could no longer be seen as spare tyres. Addressing journalists in Abuja yesterday ahead of the association’s maiden conference holding tomorrow, themed “Prospects and Challenges of Local Government in Nigeria”,  its national legal adviser, Ahmad Salisu Isyaku,  said the association was seeking to change the legal status of council vice chairmen. Isyaku, who is also vice chairman of Fagge Local Government Area of Kano State, said the association wanted the position of council chairman integrated into the local government system in the country so that his/her responsibilities would be clearly defined. He said: “Most of local government vice chairmen were given a kind of relegated status in the form of the spare tyres syndrome. So, we’re trying to see a different setting whereby right from the word go, the legal status of vice chairmen is being changed to a very well articulated and understandable position whereby the modus operandi of the vice chairmen is clearly stated with each and every vice chairman knowing his own responsibilities and what it takes to be a vice chairman instead of having his career starting and ending as a vice chairman. “We’re looking at the possibility of making the position so clear and glaring that people will be thinking of becoming vice chairmen. But as it is obtainable now, people become vice chairman by accident. So, we’re trying to see that the vice chairman’s position is being integrated into the local council system whereby the position of vice chairman is being cherished by others and seen as a position rather than as a supportive position.” Also speaking, the chairman of the association, Lawrence Onuchukwu, who is also the vice chairman of Abuja Municipal Area Council, decried that the career of local government vice chairmen often started and ended at the council level “due to the spare tyre syndrome”. Onuchukwu, however, said their loyalty to their bosses was 100 percent, adding that “we are not in conflict and we cannot be in conflict with anybody.” He said the association was getting its members involved in doing one or two things outside their offices to let them know “there is life outside politics and that politicking is not a source of livelihood.” He appealed to state assemblies to approve the Local Government Autonomy Bill, saying the association was hoping to lobby for it in a bid to deepen the nation’s democracy. Ekiti State: And democracy dies 16 Kwara LG chairmen defect to PDP Kwara: 16 LG chairmen dump APC, join Gov. Ahmed in PDP