The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) disqualified the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) from fielding gubernatorial, national and state assembly candidates in Zamfara State. However, Senator Sa’idu Muhammad Dansadau is the Zamfara State governorship candidate of the National Rescue Movement (NRM), a party he helped to form. In this interview shortly after kick-starting his campaign in Gusau, he explains his chances of winning the election, his blueprint for the state, among other sundry issues. Excerpts:  Daily Trust: As founder of your political party – the NRM, many people had thought you would vie for the presidency. Why did you decide to go for the governorship of Zamfara? Senator Sa’idu Muhammad Dansadau: Honestly speaking, what you said is absolutely correct. When the primaries were about to start, I informed some key stakeholders in my party about it, but some were vehemently against it, insisting that my services were more needed in the state than the nation. So they prevailed on me to succumb to the yearnings and aspirations of the people to contest for the governorship. Zamfara is my home and it is substantially instrumental to whatever I become on this earth. I felt it would be an act of betrayal to refuse to answer the call of my people; after all, it is not the power that I want but solutions to the socio-economic challenges that have bedeviled the state and country by extension. In fact, I have for a quite long time demonstrated my consistent reluctance for the position of governorship. I can recall in 1992 during the defunct SDP and NRC, late Alhaji Umaru Aliyu Shinkafi offered to sponsor me to contest for the governorship position in the old Sokoto State but I declined and told him that my interest was to go to the National Assembly. I was then defeated at the primary. DT: As a new political party, do you think Zamfara people will give you the mandate on its ticket? Dansadau: There is no doubt about it. Last Sunday’s flag-off of my campaign activities is a clear sign that the people of the state are willing and remain resolute and committed to vote for me against any other candidate from any party in the state. Did you see the large crowd and the number of vehicles? I didn’t pay a dime to anyone except for the 15 vehicles that carried journalists and clerics. The people at the grassroots and youths donated vehicles and money. In today’s politics, if you can command this kind of crowd without paying any one, it shows the commitment of people to your cause. I’m convinced beyond reasonable doubt that 70 per cent of Zamfara people are anxious to vote for me; so all the others parties would share the remaining 30 per cent. DT: There are so many crises in the ruling APC in Zamfara, don’t you think those who were not allowed to have their way will undermine the electoral process to the extent that there may not be elections in Zamfara in 2019? Dansadau: They can’t do that, and let me tell you, the power to make or mar elections in 2019 belongs to God. Yes, you can’t rule out mischief from the APC in view of the frustration that their leader in the state has found himself in. Remember, when their primaries were aborted, he said he wouldn’t mind if a state of emergency was declared in Zamfara State. That goes to show the extent to which he can go to ensure elections don’t take place at all; but he can’t do that because the children that have become orphans and widows following his mis-governance are praying to God to bring solution to us, and the prayer of such people is automatically accepted by the Almighty. Therefore, I’m sure elections would hold peacefully and APC, PDP and all other parties would be defeated. DT: Are you in alliance with any political party? Honestly, as I’m talking to you, we are not in alliance with any party, but with the good people of the state who are committed to seeing the end of insecurity; who are also desirous of lifting the state from its present economic and security doldrums. The intellectuals in the state, even from the Diaspora, are all coming back home to ensure that we succeed at the poll. Also, we have the support of a large number of individuals from the APC and PDP, including those at the top echelons of their leadership. They gave us the assurance that when elections come, they are going to work and vote for me. These are all geared towards ameliorating the socio-economic challenges of the state. DT: What will be your priorities in the event that you win the election? Dansadau: They are obvious; the security of lives and property, education, commerce and agriculture. These are my cardinal priorities. The issue of health is an obligation to every serious government. If you have a population that is unhealthy, what else can you achieve? DT: As a farmer and owner of an agro allied company; how do you intend to boost agriculture in the state? Dansadau: I have been a large scale farmer since 1977. I started farming even before I was enrolled in primary school. So I know the challenges in the sector. I know how to boost the sector to meet the standard of developed countries. The company you mentioned is specifically a seed company. I established it 12 years ago and it has now become not only the first in production and quality in Nigeria, but also the first in West Africa. It is also among the first nine in Africa. So that shows you the expertise we have in agriculture. Many companies have approached us for collaboration. The issue of agriculture in the state is to develop it to international standard; so, God willing, within few years of the administration of the NRM in Zamfara State, we will achieve 80 per cent of mechanised agriculture. DT: Do you intend to look into youth population? Dansadau: There is no family in Zamfara today where you will not find three to four unemployed youths. I have done my plan, and it is in my blueprint. Within our eight years, there will be no unemployed graduate of a tertiary institution in the state. We are going to give them a choice in government or in the private sector. We have already developed the model that will help a large number of our youths to go into business, and we will provide them with funds. We will establish the University of Agricultural Technology in our second year in office. It is going to offer courses that are not offered by any university in Africa. By the time our youths acquire these skills, you will see companies and governments in Africa coming to Zamfara to employ them. This is part of the strategies we have put in place. DT: It is obvious that Zamfara State is under siege by bandits, rustlers and kidnappers; what is your plan to tackle them? Dansadau: What brought about this insecurity is injustice. In any society where leaders don’t know justice and fair play, the only thing that will come in is crisis. We are going to be fair to all; we have the political will to enforce law and order. That is to say, even if my own child or wife commits any offence, they would be brought to book. DT: How will you boost IGR in the state? Dansadau: We are going to bring smallholder mining equipment. All those called illegal miners will be trained and experts from South Africa will give the miners the equipment on credit. People will come to Zamfara to buy mined resources. We are going to regulate and raise everything to international standard so that the hazards smallholder miners go through will become history. DT: Many people believe that the number of out-of-school children in the state is high, what will be your intervention? Dansadau: I’m an educationist by training; it is a matter of infrastructure. There are schools that have more than 100 pupils per classroom. We will provide educational infrastructure and facilities in order to have 40 to 45 pupils per classroom. The other problem is that there are so many schools with over 1,000 population each but with one teacher each. Why will you send your child to school if you know he or she is not learning anything? These are some of the reasons why we have so many out-of-school children. The teachers are available, and I can tell you that from NCE to university graduates of education in sciences and in arts, we have more than 3,000 unemployed. We will employ them and their remuneration will be encouraging.  Dansadau flags off campaign, vows to end banditry in Zamfara Sokoto 2019: NRM guber candidate flags off campaign today 4 smaller parties exploit  Zamfara APC stalemate