Some former retirees of the defunct Nigeria Airways who are currently receiving part of their pension recently approved by the Federal Government have been credited twice, Daily Trust has learnt. It was learnt that the mistake emanated from the Accountant General’s office of the Federation. It would be recalled that the over 6,000 ex-Airways workers started getting payment alert after the completion of verification exercises in Lagos, Abuja, Kano and Enugu. While majority of the retirees have been paid in four batches, the fifth and the last batch of the payment would resume this week, it was learnt. A source said the payment especially in Abuja was suspended following the mistake of double payment discovered. A message sent to a social media group of the retirees last week read: “It has been discovered that some people are being credited twice on either of the two payments categories, (50% of the main payment and/or supplementary). “This is to urgently call everyone’s attention to this development and strongly inform/advise anyone that has been so credited twice that this is a mistake and such persons should please in their own interest, refrain from accessing/touching/removing the second mistakenly credited sum. They are all being collated for subsequent and necessary reversal by the Central Bank through the various individual banks”. They were however warned to comply with the directive not to touch the second payment. It was however learnt on Monday that the double payment has been reversed through the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which liaised with individual bankers. The President, Aviation Union Grand Alliance (AUGA), Comrade Lookman Animashaun in a chat with our correspondent confirmed the double payment and said it has been corrected. He said the fifth and last batch of payment would be made latest Friday. Ex-Airways workers get payment alerts, laud Buhari Ex-Airway workers take pension battle to National Assembly 22.5bn pension: Ex-Nigeria Airways workers get payment alerts, laud Buhari