Nigeria is on the threshold of becoming the 14th best economies in the world as indices of growth and development are manifesting, the Executive Secretary of the Tertiary Education Trust Fund (TETFund), Dr. Abdullahi Baffa Bichi, has said. He made the disclosure on Wednesday during an interactive session with members of Buhari Support Group, One 2 Tell 10, in Kano. Dr. Bichi said the development followed the sound and excellent economic policies introduced by President Muhammadu Buhari. He said a report released by renowned global economic expert, PWC, revealed that Nigeria would be the 14th biggest economy in the world in 2050. The executive secretary explained that the report titled the World in 2050 which was released recently attributed this to the current economic revolution embarked upon by President Buhari. He said the country’s economy was now on a sound footing as evident by the stability in the business and investment environment. He commended President Buhari for his good economic policies and initiatives that bailed out the country from recession within just two years as certified by the major financial players in the world such as IMF, World Bank and others. Dr. Bichi, who is the Director General of the One 2 Tell 10 group, explained that getting out of recession was by no means a great achievement which should make electorate to renew their mandate with the current government. He commended the group for their steadfastness and commitment to ensuring the success of the APC-led government. “We are all living witnesses today that our country is enjoying peace with the taming of the activities of insurgents and pipeline vandals, while efforts are on top gear to quench the activities of bandits in other parts of the country. “Economically, Nigeria is now on a sound footing while corruption has been reduced to the barest minimum,” he said. Earlier, the Chairman of the One 2 Tell 10 Buhari support group, Comrade Yuguda Abdulazeez, assured that the group was all out to ensure the success of President Buhari and all the APC candidates in the 2019 elections. He said it is their conviction that Nigeria is in safe hands, with President Buhari at the helm of affairs, adding that only the corrupt and bad elements in the country would be crying against Buhari. Taxation, new global order to dominate 2011 CITN confab TETFUND and Nigerian universities Buhari to Nigerians: Vote only credible candidates