Nigeria’s data hosting and IT infrastructure agency, Galaxy Backbone, has said it is now engaging more with the players in the private sector because it has completed building and installation of its infrastructures. The agency which has a limited liability status will now be competing with the Tier-3 data and fibre network companies for the private sector market share, but the Managing Director of Galaxy Backbone, Mr Yusuf Kazaure, said the agency stands on a higher ground than its competitors. Mr Kazaure, who played host to the Editor-in-Chief/CEO of Media Trust Limited, Mallam Manir Dan Ali, and some other staff of the Daily Trust newspaper in Abuja on Wednesday, also said being the sole and largest data hosting agency for the government gives Galaxy advantage over others. ‘’Our initial focus is to connect all the federal government organisations across the country. And in doing that we realised if government becomes digitalised there is need for us to get the people also digitalised. There is nothing more disheartening than see government agencies digitalised and people whom the government services are targeted at are not digitalised because there is no infrastructure on ground. Hence our desire to move out of immediate market to the private sector’’, he said. However, he said the agency would try to work on peoples’ perception because without it ICT infrastructure only would not digitalise them. “So for us, it is not about selling Galaxy (‘s service) but it is also about selling government’s mission to have get government services across to the people  in a seamless, transparent way’’, he said. The MD said government needed to do this as citizens are now more sophisticated and intolerant of ineptitude and delay. “But we must also let them know that things have changed for the better and it will keep on improving and they need also to change their view on technology. That if government has not given you a piece of paper like before, nothing has happened, nobody has taken your money’’, he said. He said the agency’s data centre In Abuja is about largest in the country with about four backups in Enugu, and Minna, with that of Kano and Lagos still upcoming. On how secured the data centre is, Mr kazaure said the agency data centre is secured and hack-proved. Earlier, Mallam Dan Ali had congratulated the MD for securing another four-year term in office. Perm sec tasks agencies on electronic data Stakeholders express concern over identity management system woorie Private sector forum embraces new Identity management systems