The Federal Government has failed to constitute the governing boards of the Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS) and the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) since their dissolution in 2015. Daily Trust, however, learnt from sources that the absence of a governing board for the FIRS is not an issue to some officials in the agency for now. The sources said FIRS prefers not to have a board, as it is believed that a board would only distract and slow its operational activities. “The chairman is focused on plugging all loopholes that we can generate revenue from. Assuming we start making like six or seven trillion naira, then the board can come in and can be doing their meetings,” an official said in confidence. Our reporter further learnt that although FIRS is not operating with a board, it has generated N5 trillion as tax revenue between January and the second week of December 2018. FIRS chairman, Babatunde Fowler in a recent statement had said if the Service pools N5.3trn revenue, that will be the highest revenue ever generated. The highest revenue so far is N5.07trn generated in 2012. Some public policy analysts say the absence of a board will not allow the affected agencies perform some of their statutory functions, adding that boards are responsible for setting out broad operational and administrative guidelines for agencies. A Yobe-based economist and business analyst, Binta Yahya, said board members are meant to ensure that certain decisions, especially financial, are done in accordance with the agency’s act. She said, however, that FIRS can function without a board as long as it reports directly to the Ministry of Finance which is its regulator. But an Associate Professor of Financial Economics, Dr Mohammed Yelwa, cautioned against allowing top revenue generating agencies to operate without a board, stating that “there would likely be no checks and balances especially in their recruitments, spending and other operations.” The service in its quarterly publication, between April and June 2018, said it recruited 800 new staff into its workforce – without a board in line with the FIRS Act 2007. The Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC) has no board. Its members were nominated over a year ago, President Muhammadu Buhari in November replaced nominee Olabode Akin Mustapha, with Ronke Shokefun screened by the National Assembly (NASS) as chairman. Under the NDIC Act, the board is vested with the responsibility of superintending over the affairs of the corporation. The managing director of NDIC reports to the minister of finance directly in the absence of its board. At the time of filing this report, the Head of Communication and Servicom Department, Wahab Gabadamosi, was yet to respond to our enquiries on this. Responding to the enquiries, the NDIC Head of Communication, Ibrahim Kudu Mohammed confirmed that the NASS has cleared the board members but could not confirm if the Presidency has sent a teller to the Ministry of Finance. He said: “I can’t tell you what stage it is because I don’t work in the Presidency. What I can assure you is that, we have not received any communication from the supervising ministry and until that is arranged. You have to give sometime for the process to be concluded.” 29 months after, federal agencies still without boards FIRS clampdown on tax defaulters FIRS collects N2.5tr in 8 months