An amicable resolution of issues relating to $8.1 billion foreign exchange remittances by MTN Nigeria Communications Limited and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) has been reached, the apex bank said yesterday. CBN in a release, yesterday, communicated the resolution of the issues bringing to an end, five months of uncertainty. The CBN in August directed MTN Nigeria Communications Limited (MTNN)  to reverse repatriations valued at $8.1bn done on its behalf by four commercial banks between 2007 and 2015 on the basis of Certificates of Capital Importation (CCIs) issued to MTNN. But yesterday, CBN said following the keen interest shown by various stakeholders sequel to the regulatory action, it was committed to engage further with MTNN for an equitable resolution. The Director of Corporate Communications, Isaac Okoroafor said: “MTNN, led by its Nigerian shareholders, held intensive  engagements with the CBN in the course of which it supplied additional material information, not previously offered to the bank, satisfactorily clarifying its remittances. “Having now reviewed  the additional documentation provided by the company, the CBN has concluded that MTNN is  no longer required to reverse the historical dividend payments made to MTN Nigeria  shareholders.” However, the CBN said that the proceeds from the preference shares in MTNN’s private placement remittances of 2008 were irregular having been based on CCIs that were issued without the final approval of CBN. “The CBN and MTNN have mutually agreed that the aforementioned transaction be reversed notionally to bring it into full compliance with foreign exchange laws and regulations,” the statement further added. The parties have resolved that execution of the terms of the agreement will lead to amicable disposal of the pending legal suit between the parties and final resolution of the matter. The CBN assured foreign investors that “the integrity of the CCIs issued by authorized dealers remain sacrosanct. Potential investors are encouraged to take advantage of the enormous investment opportunities that abound within Nigeria.” A report by a foreign news agency yesterday said the MTN Group had agreed to make a $53 million payment to resolve a dispute , ending a four-month multi-billion dollar dividend repatriation row that has hammered its share price. Nigeria is MTN’s biggest market, accounting for a third of the African telecoms heavyweight’s annual core profit, but it has proven problematic for the company in recent years. The CBN confirmed the outline of the agreement with MTN, without mentioning the $53 million payment. The agreement would lead to an “amicable disposal of the pending legal suit between the parties and final resolution of the matter,” it said in a statement. CBN, MTN reach resolution, quash $8.1bn repatriation order MTN, four banks will be punished, CBN insists $8.1bn MTN proceeds: FG insists firm must play by rules