The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) for the 2019 general elections, Atiku Abubakar, yesterday, signed the presidential peace pact in Abuja. Dr. Oby Ezekwesili who is the presidential candidate of Allied Congress Party of Nigeria (ACPN) also signed the pact. Atiku, a former vice president, was absent Tuesday at the International Conference Centre, Abuja, when candidates of the All Progressives Congress (APC), President Muhammadu Buhari and others signed the peace accord.  He said he was not invited to the occasion by the National Peace Committee, led by a former Head of State, Gen. Abdulsalami Abubakar (rtd). Atiku who signed the pact at the Kukah Centre in Abuja, commended President Muhammadu Buhari for accepting to sign the accord, but appealed to the president to also sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill into law. “I commend the president for accepting to sign the peace agreement. But let me also advise him to sign the Electoral Act Amendment Bill,” Atiku said. In his brief remarks at the event, the Chairman of NPC and former Head of State, Abdulsalami Abubakar said, “As you are all aware, yesterday (Tuesday), we signed the peace accord which was signed by quite a number of registered party chairmen and their presidential candidates. “I want to apologise for the omission, the PDP was not able to attend that ceremony. I spoke to the presidential candidate and the party officials in order to disabuse the minds of people and to make Nigerians aware that everybody involved cares for peace and wants a peaceful election. “It was not only the PDP that was not there, one or two parties were not there. This morning (yesterday), we hosted Mrs. Obi Ezekwesili who because of her engagements couldn’t sign. Today, she has signed and she has gone.” The deal is part of efforts at ensuring a violence-free election in 2019. The PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus; former governor of Ogun State, Otunba Gbenga Daniel; former presidential aspirant and former Minister of Special Duties, Alhaji Saminu Tanimu Turaki (SAN), were among many others at the event.  Atiku signs 2019 peace deal, asks Buhari to sign electoral bill UPDATED: 2019: Atiku absent as Buhari, others sign Peace Accord BREAKING!!! Atiku to sign peace pact today