The Theatre Commander of Operation Lafiya Dole has raised alarm that some individuals are trying create panic and unnecessary humanitarian problems in Bama, Dikwa and Monguno communities. In a statement issued to newsmen in Maiduguri on Sunday by the Deputy Director, Public Relations, Theatre Command of Operation Lafiya Dole, Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, he said the special taskforce is aware of plots to instigate the inhabitants to abandon their communities to displaced camps. The statement read: “It has been observed that some unscrupulous individuals with likely sinister motives within and outside Borno state, are trying to create panic and unnecessary humanitarian problems for undisclosed reasons. “It has come to our attention that these people are plotting to instigate the inhabitants of Bama, Dikwa and Monguno communities to abandon their communities and relocate to Internally Displaced Persons (IDP) Camps for undisclosed reasons. “The inhabitants of these towns and the general public are please urged to discountenance such calls and remain calm. Theatre Command, Operation LAFIYA DOLE and other Security Agencies will shed more light on the issue in a Security Council meeting with the Borno State Government, scheduled to hold on Monday 31st December 2018. “We would like to further state that there is no basis for the people of Bama, Dikwa and Monguno to vacate their respective communities. “However, Operation LAFIYA DOLE troops in conjunction with Borno State Government are working towards relocating the residents of Baga, to safer locations in view of the ongoing military operations in the area. “Members of the public are advised to remain calm as the military is in firm control to guarantee their safety and security. We would like to warn that any attempt to cause further panic through this false alarm would be viewed very seriously.” The military therefore implored the inhabitants of those towns to remain calm and stay in their communities. Insurgents kill one, displace 1,300 in Borno fresh attacks FG to launch national security campaign against insurgency, says Information Minister Radio Nigeria donates to displaced persons in Borno