* as 20,000 joins PDP in Akwa Ibom Akwa Ibom state governor, Udom Emmanuel, says he is not moved by what he described as the ‘ranting’ of the opposition party, just as over 20,000 All Progressives Congress (APC) party members decamped to the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in the state. Addressing a jubilant crowd in Ibom Hall ground, Uyo as they sang and danced, displaying a mock coffin with an inscription “APC RIP”, the governor described leaders of the APC as looters who have no sustainable plan for the empowerment of the people and the overall development of the state. Emmanuel, who challenged the APC and other political parties in the state to a debate to determine which party have a sustainable plan for the development of the state, said that the PDP remained a party of peace. He commended the defectors for taking a worthwhile decision to join the party, adding that the PDP is the only grassroots party in the country. He said the PDP would not shed anyone’s blood in its quest for political power and urged them to stand up in defence of the state at all times. ”Today is thing of joy that over 20,000 of just one group have come to call on the party chairman of PDP, the only grassroot party in the country; this is unprecedented in the history of our state. “What you are doing today is not about me, it is not about the party chairman, or any other person, it is about the soul of Akwa Ibom state. “I am not moved by the ranting of the opposition in the state but let me assure you that PDP will stand for peace and for development of Akwa Ibom state,” he said. While speaking, state Chairman of the party, Mr Paul Ekpo, described the number of the defectors as unprecedented in the history of the party in Akwa Ibom state. “It has never happened in the history of Akwa Ibom state that people in their thousands and on their own could decide and say we should come and receive them into the Peoples Democratic Party. “We have been preaching industrialization, peace, stability and workability but little did we know that our preaching has touched the minds of so many people in the state. “Tell Nigerians that Akwa Ibom state is PDP, and the entire people are here to bury APC in the state,” Ekpo said. Akpabio: APC’s Silver Bullet for South-South A/Ibom PDP berates APC over N2.5bn INEC bribery claim 2019: How A/Ibom Assembly became a battlefield