The ‘authentic’ Mogajis in Ibadanland yesterday, decried the long list of gubernatorial candidates in Oyo State for the forthcoming general elections. They are urging the gubernatorial candidates to support any of the five leading contestants to save the electorate the agony of perusing the long list of candidates during the forthcoming polls. The ‘Mogajis’ said in the next few weeks, they will engage all the contestants to tell the people of the state what they have in stock for them and to ensure a violence-free election. At the meeting were: Chief Olawale Oladaja,  Mogaji Akinsola, Oppo Labiran Ibadan, Engr Adekunle Adanla, Mogaji Adanla, Mogaji Fatai Olanrewaju, Mogaji Bioku, Abass Oloko, Mogaji Oloko, Ademola Olasomi, Mogaji Olasomi, Musibau Raji, Mogaji Dadaa, Rasaki Adeyemo and Mogaji Molade. Rising from their meeting in Ibadan, the ‘Mogajis’, including chiefs Abass Oloko, Adanla and Wale Oladoja, said they observed that the too many candidates was capable of confusing the electorate hence the need to critically examine it to arrive at the best for the state. “Only the best is good for our state’s post Governor Abiola Ajimobi era in 2019,” they said. The statement, signed by their spokesman, Mogaji Wale Oladoja, said it was their considered opinion that candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Engr. Seyi Makinde; that of the Action Democratic Party (ADP), Otunba Adebayo Alao-Akala; that of Zenith Labour Party (ZLP), Chief Sharafadeen Abiodun Alli; that of African Democratic Congress (ADC), Senator Olufemi Lanlehin and that of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC), Chief Bayo Adelabu, appeared to be enjoying massive following across Ibadan and other parts of the state. Oladoja said quite a number of the other 32 candidates were people of proven integrity and pedigree with capability to govern the state. “But the aforementioned are lucky because of their public and private service, coupled with the political parties they find themselves in,” it said The ‘Mogajis’ appealed to the shortlisted candidates to campaign on issues and have the fear of God in whatever they do and make love of the masses the cornerstone of their programmes. Ibadan family heads warn new kings against moves to dethrone Olubadan Supremacy: How far can Olubadan, new Obas go? Mogajis dare tormentors, storm palace as Olubadan installs new chiefs