A former governor of Lagos state and national stalwart of All Progressives Congress (APC), Asiwaju Bola Ahmed Tinubu, has described the Second Republic President, Alhaji Shehu Shagari, who died on Friday at 93, as a statesman, patriot and political stabilizer who served the country well in different capacities. In a statement signed yesterday by his media aide, Tunde Rahman, Asiwaju Tinubu said the former president believed in and worked for the unity of Nigeria. “He served Nigeria in different capacities – administrator, provincial secretary, House of Representatives member, minister in several ministries and President – and in each capacity he did excellently well. “He contributed his quota to the growth and development of the country. He particularly helped in advancing our democracy. President Shagari had the temperament for good leadership. He was a decent man. “In the Second Republic, as the first executive president, his was a moderating voice, a stabilising factor. Even within the defunct NPN, with all its reputation, he was of a different type.  He wore integrity on his collar like a badge of honour. “His background as a school teacher, his maturity and moderation helped to mould his politics. He was true and pure.  He was humble and humane. He led a spartan way of life. He was modest and unpretentious. Truthful and sincere. He was generally a good man. “He saw the good qualities of his political opponent, the late Chief Obafemi Awolowo, and gifted him the highest honour in the land, the GCFR award,” he stated. Tinubu said it was pleasing that President Shagari left the world at an advanced age. Sending his condolences to the late president’s family and associates, Tinubu prayed that Allah grant his family the strength to live without him and to carry on with his legacies of commitment to national unity and excellence in service. He also commiserated with Governor Aminu Tambuwal, the government and people of Sokoto State, the Muslim Ummah in Nigeria and Nigerians generally. “May our country be blessed with more people like President Shagari,” Tinubu said. Between Buhari and Shagari Shagari was man of peace - Saraki Saraki, Dogara, Mark mourn Shagari