Founding chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Malam Nuhu Ribadu has bagged a lifetime achievement award on anti-corruption campaign. The award, which was administered by Qatar-based think-tank, Rule of Law and Anti-corruption Centre (ROLACC), celebrates corruption fighters, academics and campaigners from around the world. The award ceremony was held on Friday at the Putrajaya International Convention Centre in Malaysia. Malaysian Prime Minister, Mahathir Mahamad and the Emir of Qatar, Sheikh Tamim Al Thani attended the ceremony. Sheikh Al Thani instituted the award in support of support of the United Nation’s anti-corruption drive. The award is in four categories, with joint winners in each category. Each category of the award comes with a cash prize of $250,000. Ribadu jointly won the lifetime/outstanding achievement category alongside former South African corruption fighter and ex-World Bank vice president, Leonardo McCarthy. The honourees were presented with a plague and certificate each by the two leaders. Ribadu was nominated for the award by the African Centre for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL), a civil society organization doing pioneering work on whistleblowing policy in Nigeria. His win followed approval by ROLACC’s High-Level Selection Committee and the board. In his short acceptance speech Ribadu described the award as a tribute to persons around the world working to curb corruption. He paid tribute to his colleagues at the EFCC, some of whom paid the supreme price in their line of duty. He said the award will boost the morale of corruption fighters who would come to realize that their job is not thankless, after all. Also honoured alongside Ribadu, was Cambridge University don, Prof Jason Sharman, Dr. RobtelNeajaiPailey of Oxford University, who won the academic excellence category. Ex- EFCC boss, Ribadu, honored as ‘Global Anti-Corruption Hero’ in Malaysia Daily Trust chairman gets Wole Soyinka''s journalistic excellence award Daily Trust features editor makes WSCIJ finals