The Abia State Governor, Dr. Okezie Ikpeazu, sustained his administration’s history of honoring high performing teenagers in the state as another One-Day Teenage Governor, Miss Chineme Joy Ota, was inaugurated today. Speaking at Government House, Umuahia, during the inauguration of the Teanage Governor, Dr. Ikpeazu expressed appreciation for the good performance of Abia students in public examinations in the last four years. According to him: “For the first time in the history of the state and possibly Nigeria in general, Abia students have maintained first position, back to back, in West Africa School Certificate Examination (WASCE) for four consecutive years”. Governor Ikpeazu who urged the Teenage Governor and her executive team to ensure they use the opportunity to learn more about good leadership and the running of successful state institutions, expressed appreciation to Abia school teachers and parents for raising high flying children that will take over the leadership of the state in the future. The Governor said: “I am confident that with the modest achievements we have recorded in the education sector in the past four years and going forward, our future is assured in Abia State. “We are not going to rest on our laurels but will continue to add to what we have done to ensure that Abia remains the number one State as far as education is concerned in Nigeria.” The Governor, who expressed hope that the students would excel in their future engagements, congratulated the Teanage Governor and her executive team on their success in the debate and quiz competitions that led to their emergence. Responding, the 18-year old student of Ohafia Girls Model Secondary School, Miss Chineme Joy Ota, on behalf of her 20-member executive team, requested that the Teenage Governor initiative be sustained in the State to encourage hard-work and academic excellence among teenagers. The Teanage Governor, who is an orphan, made a case for the establishment of a Youth Centre in the State to tackle cases of child abuse. She stated that as an orphan from a very young age, she faced various challenges but thanked God for seeing her through and making her a voice for others.The new One-Day-Governor, who hails from Amaekpu Ohafia is the second to be inaugurated by Governor Ikpeazu. Miss Joy Eze, who is now a law student of Abia State University, Uturu, was the first One Day Governor of the State. Teenage girl becomes one-day gov in Abia 250 Abia schools to fight over 90 science teachers — Principal Teenage one-day gov awarded full scholarship