Yusuf Goni (Kaka) is the Youth leader of All Progressives Congress (APC) in Yobe state, in this interview, he speaks about how the choice of Hon Mai Mala Buni as the APC gubernatorial flag bearer will encourage youths participation in politics and reduce crime in Yobe. Excerpt: As an APC youth in Yobe state, what do think is the level of youths’ participation in politics and governance? Well, presently the level of participation is not different from other parts of the country but, the anointment of Hon Mai-mala Buni as the gubernatorial candidate by Governor Ibrahim Gaidam has proven to us that he wants brighter future for the youths ahead of 2019. Also, in governance, the governor had made many appointments of youths as aides, advisers and many other positions in government. In fact all the people around him are youths. Do you think the choice of Hon Mai Mala will change status of youths in Yobe state? Of course yes, because Mai Mala is a youth, his friends and contemporaries are all youths. What else do you expect? His government would definitely focus on the ongoing socio-economic development by this government, which engages youths in agriculture, empowerment skills, education and sports. What area of the economy will you want your candidate to focus more on if elected as governor? All sectors are important, depending on situation and circumstances. But I would like him to focus more on Youth Empowerment considering the situation we found ourselves. Then education, agriculture and healthcare delivery because they are vital organs of any society that wants to flourish. Most of the security challenges we are facing in the Northeast is as the result of joblessness and lack of education. If these sectors would be fortified, poverty and crime level would drop because the present government has already set the ball rolling. Considering what is happening in Nigeria today, the rate of crimes is on the increase, kidnapping, armed robbery, religious and ethnic clashes, etc. Therefore government needs to create avenues that create jobs to youths. Do you think, if elected, your candidate will address issues that breeds insecurity in the state ? Yes, why I am confident about his choice is that, he is a grassroots mobilizer with listening ear.  We whole- heatedly accepted his nomination knowing that he would engage the youths to reduce crimes in the society. As a youth leader, what are you doing to make the 2019 general election violence free? We have been doing advocacy campaigns since the commencement of voter registration up to the time of primary elections in the state and Alhamdulillah, Yobe has not recorded a single violence. The youths have conducted themselves peacefully, that is to tell you the level of sensitization we carried out and how satisfied they are with APC government. However, we will continue to build on the existing peace to promote non violence and “politics without bitterness”. In the past toxic drugs were being given to the youths to cause chaos, but with the sensitization carried out, they have abandoned all this knowing fully that they are the leaders of tomorrow. So in Yobe we will expect minimal or no violence during the election insha Allah. Also,  we have sensitized the youths on the importance of having the Permanent Voter’s Card (PVC) so as to exercise their civic rights.  But you know Yobe had some security challenges in the past, some who own the PVCs are no longer in Yobe state, that is one of the reason of non-collection of the PVCs but for those who are still in the state, the higher percentage have collected their own. In a nutshell, in Yobe state we did our best by encouraging youths to register and also collect the PVCs, compared to other states of the federation. How confident are you that Maimala Buni,  will continue with developmental projects of Ibrahim Gaidam, if elected? I am very much sure, that is why we are giving them 100 per cent assurance and votes.  Maimala is a youth like us who has vision for the state.  He has held many positions in the country including the National Secretary of the ruling party which we believed has given him vast experience. The Not-too-young to run bill was recently signed into law. What is the level of youth’s participation in politics in Yobe? There is active participation of Youths in politics compared to their previous turnout. Both men and women have contested for various seats. What are the challenges so far? One of the big challenge here is that, the cost of the nomination forms were too exhorbitant. Many could not afford them. If the forms were made affordable, at a cheaper prices, I assure you many youths would have won primary elections in the state. But, I want to assure you that the youths will continue to participate until the parties’ policies favour us. I believed that in future, the political parties will look into the challenges by making the forms affordable to us. How would you rate the APC governments at federal and Yobe state, where you belong? It is obvious that APC government took up the mantle of leadership at the national level at a moment it was about to collapse, just like a dilapidated structure. A lot of achievements have been made in transportation, fighting corruption, agriculture, education, health care delivery, among others.  Coming to Yobe, the state had witnessed the most formidable transformation it had never experienced since its creation 27 years ago. It was under APC led government that Yobe State University and University Teaching Hospital were establishedand, provision of free health services to pregnant women, children below the ages of five and accident victims was approved. In Yobe state fertilizer was sold to farmers at N3,000 per bag during the 2018 farming season, the cheapest proce in the country.  APC government has been supporting security agencies with patrol vehicles and logistics which has helped in reducing insecurity in the state. Above all, have you ever heard anything like salary crises in Yobe? Salaries and gratuity are being paid as at when due. What are you doing to ensure that APC hold it’ grip in Yobe? Recently, a 100,000 youth support rally for our gubernatorial candidate, Maimala, was organised to appreciate the benefits we got from the APC government and throw our unflinching support for President Muhammad Buhari, our Senators and other APC aspirants, because Yobe government had empowered  about 10,000 youths ranging from Degree to Diploma holders.  Others were given scholarships to further their education and those who have not undergone formal education were empowered in one trade or the other while many were employed as environmental workers with Yobe State Environmental Protection Agency. As far as we are concern APC has not failed us and we need to reciprocate the gesture.  That was why to show our seriousness, all the youths that gathered at the rally came along with their voters card.  We will make sure APC delivers 100 per cent victory at all levels in Yobe. Enter Mai Mala Buni, the chosen one Buni nomination can't stop other nominees, Gaidam says Group endorses Dalori for APC national Secretary