Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State has appealed to President Muhammadu Buhari to prevail on the National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC), Adams Oshiomhole, to stop abusing him and ex-President Olusegun Obasanjo. Okorocha lamented that the manner Oshiomhole has been abusing sitting governors and former president was unbecoming of any chairman of a political party with a national outlook. Okorocha, in a statement signed by His Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, accused Oshiomhole of taking rascality too far. The statement read: “We won’t take the pain to begin to talk about all the abuses (of Oshiomhole), but to humbly plead with President Muhammadu Buhari, who is the leader of the party, to call Oshiomhole to order. “The party’s national chairman has, in less than six months, enthroned the culture of rascality into the party and the development is not good for the Party. APC is not known for rascality and abuses. And the earlier he is called to order the better for the party. “One of the reasons the PDP lost in 2015 was the abuses the handlers of the party then were heaping on the APC Presidential Candidate then, and the President today, Muhammadu Buhari. Oshiomhole should be advised not to tow the 2015 PDP line. “Chief Olusegun Obasanjo is the former President of the country. And no matter the provocation or his political activities this time, Oshiomhole should have considered his status as the former President of the country in talking about him, and should have exercised caution in addressing him. Saying that God would punish the former President was never advisable. This should not be the language of APC.” While advising Oshiomhole to carefully select his words when he is talking about certain categories of Nigerians, Okorocha reminded Oshiomhole that the party does not belong to him. Oshiomhole behaving like opposition party’s spokesman –Okorocha Okorocha meets Buhari, says Tinubu ill-informed on Oshiomhole Anointed candidates: How Buhari, Tinubu backed Oshiomhole on Amosun, Okorocha, Yari