The Nigeria Police Force is endangered and facing threats as a result of lack of adequate personnel and equipment to surmount various security challenges bedevilling the nation. This was revealed by various speakers and stakeholders at the annual Bauchi State Police Command PCRC Week held in Bauchi on Wednesday. At the event well-attended by various stakeholders, the PCRC National Chairman, Dr. Faruk Abdullahi Mai Yama, said the number of Nigerian police personnel is grossly inadequate to police the growing population in the country especially at a time when there are many imminent security threats in all parts of the country. He explained that the current 400,000 policemen in service is inadequate for policing an estimated 200 million people in the country; which, according to him, fell far below the United Nation’s approved bench mark. He added that PCRC members have been very active in providing an effective community-based policing to help the police gather intelligence and rid the nation of criminals and tackle threats to security of lives and properties. Also speaking, Bauchi state governor, Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, said the government had in its own way provided logistics support to the state police command by donating patrol vehicles to ease their operations. Governor Abubakar who was represented by his deputy, Architect Audu Sule Katagum, however urged the PCRC and the police to strengthen their partnership in combating crimes and curbing security threats posed by criminals in communities. In addition, Bauchi State PCRC chairman, Alhaji Abdullahi Maigari Misau, noted that the PCRC as a civilian voluntary organisation has maintained its integrity and contributed to the successes being recorded by the police in the country. Also, Bauchi state Commissioner of Police, Sanusi N. Lemu, said the state police command has been getting all the necessary support from the PCRC, the state government , traditional institutions, eminent personalities as well as sister security agencies in the state. He added that community policing being spearheaded through the PCRC has prevented security threats and curb criminal activities in communities. Delivering his keynote speech, Dr. Dalhatu Sa’id, who heads the Department of Crime Management and Prevention, Federal Polytechnic, Bauchi said the public needs to be properly educated on the role of police in crime prevention. He argued that police functions do not include prosecution, adding that such lies with the courts who have the sole power to imprison or release suspects arrested by the police. Police task traditional rulers on crime page 46 Abaji monarch urges residents to support police on crime