A member of the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption (PACAC), Professor Etannibi Alemika, says corrupt leaders are preparing their children to take over their positions with a view to continuing to enslave other Nigerians. He spoke in Kaduna yesterday at a stakeholders meeting against corruption organised by the PACAC and the National Orientation Agency, which had in attendance senior officers and men of the military, police and other paramilitary agencies as well as members of the public. He said: “Nigeria is presently a slave to corruption and corrupt people who have over the years enthroned themselves as kings”. He however lamented that majority of Nigerians that were victims of corruption, who were supposed to react and defend the country were also nursing the ambition of becoming rich through corruption in the nearest future. “The truth of the matter however is that the corrupt leaders are preparing their children to take over their positions to continue to enslave other Nigerians. And if steps are not taken, God forbid, the children of other Nigerians will inherit their parents’ poverty. That is why we must do something fast, as President Muhammadu Buhari says, if we don’t kill corruption, corruption will kill our country. “Today, the corrupt people have divided us along religious and ethnic lines. But the ordinary people are the victims of corruption. And they are the ones who can gather and say enough is enough. Government alone cannot do it; a Buhari can try, he can only give us leadership, but we must get to a level where we don’t accord corrupt people respect in our society. “Corruption can be defeated. It is the beneficiaries of corruption that tell you it cannot be defeated. There is no human problem that cannot be defeated, except you don’t have the will to do it.” Another member of the PACAC, Professor Sadiq Isah Radda said: “Fighting corruption, you don’t have to follow the due process, but necessary process, if the fight must succeed. In Nigeria, we have come to a point where we have to adopt necessary process, due process.”