The Nigerian airspace Management Agency (NAMA) has disclosed that work has reached advanced stage on the installation of Cat III Instrument Landing System (ILS) in Lagos and Abuja airports. The new improved landing system would enable aircraft to land at zero visibility level and end the present chaos usually associated with flight delays due to harmattan haze. It was learnt that already, a team of NAMA engineers is currently carrying out Factory Acceptance Test (FAT) of the CAT III equipment in the United States of America. NAMA said in its weekly bulletin this week that the ILS Cat 111 equipment would be installed in January 2019. The agency also dismissed recent media reports about obsolete navigational equipment around airports, saying it was erroneous and misleading “especially when viewed against ongoing efforts by the agency in the area of infrastructure upgrade across major airports in Nigeria.” It added that the agency had in the last 18 months embarked on an aggressive upgrade of navigational infrastructure in strategic airports in the country. According to it, the Cat II Instrument Landing Systems/Distance Measuring Equipment (ILS/DME) have been installed in Kaduna, Lagos, Kano and Port Harcourt airports. Similarly, the agency said installation of Doppler Very High Frequency Omnidirectional Range (DVOR) is ongoing at Maiduguri airport while that of ILS/DME is also in progress at Benin airport. “Upgrade of facilities in other airports is to follow soon,” it added. Meanwhile, ahead of the Yuletide, the agency has commenced a routine calibration of navigational facilities in 24 airports across the country. When completed in two weeks’ time, the calibration which is targeted at putting all navigational aids in optimal capacity would ensure that the facilities generate precise and accurate signals to guarantee the safety of air navigation in the country. Also to be calibrated and commissioned are the newly installed ILS/DME facilities in Lagos and Port Harcourt airports.  Kaduna Airport ready for international operations – FAAN, NAMA Flights cancellation: Lagos, Abuja to get CAT3 landing system Hazy weather: CAT 3 only solution to flight cancellations - Experts