Hundreds of supporters of Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode embarked on a mass solidarity rally, yesterday, in support of the election of the governorship candidate of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Lagos State, Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu. The supporters, who marched from the state secretariat in Alausa to APC’s secretariat on Acme Road in Ogba, also said there was no iota of truth in the purported alliance between the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) and Accord Party as reported in some sections of the media. The supporters, who marched under the auspices of Ambode Mandate Support Group (AMSG), were received by the State APC chairman, Alhaji Tunde Balogun, alongside other state executive officers of the party. Leader of the delegation and Director General of AMSG, Hon. Akeem Sulaimon, said the solidarity walk was embarked upon to reaffirm the commitment of Governor Ambode to the victory of the APC in the 2019 elections at all levels including Lagos State. Sulaimon, who is also the Special Adviser to the Governor on Communities and Communication, said it was important to emphasise that Governor Ambode had truly accepted the choice of the party, adding that any contrary information was a hoax. “We are here because a lot of people lately seem to be talking for our principal, His Excellency Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, claiming to be representing his interest and we need to let the whole world know that if anyone will represent his interests, it can only be those of us that belong to his campaign. “His Excellency, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, is a man of God; he is a man who believes that the party is supreme; he is a man who has accepted the choice and the position of the party. He has accepted that Babajide Olusola Sanwo-Olu is the candidate of our great party, APC and he has equally been mobilizing not just members of his group but he has been mobilizing the party to ensure victory for Mr. Babajide Sanwo-Olu come 2019,” he said. On the alleged declaration of support for the opposition party by some supporters of the governor, Sulaimon said though the rally was planned long before now,  there was no truth in the said rumour, adding that the governor, as a loyal party man, would not do anything to rock the boat. Among those who led the rally were the Commissioner for Local Government and Chieftaincy Affairs, Alhaji Muslim Folami; Special Adviser to the Governor on Civic Engagement, Hon. Benjamin Olabinjo; Chairman of Lagos Ferry Service, Hon. Paul Kalejaiye and APC chieftain Denge Anifowoshe, among others. Cracks in Sanwo-Olu’s endorsement by opposition parties Lagos: How Sanwo-Olu emerged as Ambode’s albatross In Lagos, Ambode, others walking a tight rope