The management of Media Trust Limited, publishers of Daily Trust titles, weekend held a send forth party for its outgoing Chief Operating Officer (COO), Mr Abhay Desai. Mr Desai’s tenure will expire on January 5, 2019. The programme, held on Friday night at the Head Office of the company in Abuja, was attended by the company’s board of directors’ chairman and members, management staff and Daily Trust editors. Chief Executive Officer/ Editor-in-Chief, Mannir Dan Ali, while speaking at the occasion, said the event was packaged to honour Mr Desai whom he said had added great value to Media Trust Limited. Malam Mannir, who thanked the outgoing COO for all innovations introduced and the energy devoted to the job, added that the company had gained a lot from his brilliant ideas. “We host the event to honour our colleague and friend Mr Abhay Desai who will be four years this January and whose contract is coming to an end. Every beginning, they say, has an end. An end sometimes has a new beginning. “Desai is someone who has not limited himself to just operational matters. That is why all editors are aware of him. “As we all know, he is an extremely smart and effective manager who always hits the nail on the head to ensure that he achieves results. “He manages to achieve some of what we are celebrating today. And he is leaving us richer. The company is richer. I can count some of his ideas. The IT department is certainly different now. He has also driven our advert team. We haven’t achieved all he wanted us to achieve. But they are on track. “Of course, his coming coincided with cost cutting measures we all had to deal with. Certainly, it has helped the company. If we had not done those things, I don’t know where we will be today. “We have to keep adapting to remain relevant. If we stick to old school, we wouldn’t be in business. Thanks to him. Of course, the board has been driving this business.” The chairman of the board, Malam Kabiru Yusuf, said the company’s biggest adventure was the decision to employ its COO from India, a decision he added surprised colleagues in the media industry. Malam Kabiru expressed happiness over the decision to employ Mr Desai, saying his contribution had helped the company to grow and make it more varied. He thanked him for his immense contribution to the company in the last four years. He said the company would continue to benefit from his rich experience and wished him well in his future endeavours on behalf of the board, stressing that “no matter where he goes from now on, he is an ambassador of Daily Trust.” Malam Kabiru said, “We were very adventurous to think of a COO from India. A lot of our colleagues in the industry were very surprised. Normally, the media industry is manned by locals. While we have tried a different kind of locals as editors, some of them are strange creatures. I wouldn’t mention names. But some are not here. “We have a huge variety of people here from different background who have made the company very rich and innovative in many ways. The biggest adventure we made is to get a COO from India. I’m very happy we did that. It allowed us to learn practices that we would never have thought about. It allowed us to put innovations into newspaper processes. “I believe that his contribution has helped to deepen the company and make it more varied. There have been products which I knew were not there before he came and which I believe we will continue after he has left. So, he has come and seen. “But he has actually changed the culture of the company and some of the ways we have done our work and some of the products we produce. And this is not a small contribution.  This is not something that is easy to be done in a short period that he has been here. It testifies to what the CEO said about his energy, passion and that he is always a working newspaperman full of new ideas and ways of trying to do the paper. “So, on behalf of the board, I must say that we are very grateful that Mr Desai has passed through this company. And that he will live his imprint…. I believe has helped the company to grow and deepen in certain areas to do certain things differently. We will definitely remember him. If the history of this company is written, there will be a definite mention of what he been able to do.” Goodwill messages were delivered by a member of the board Alhaji Aminu Dangana and General Manager, Finance, Nura Daura. Media Trust appoints new CEO New COO resumes at Media Trust Limited Media Trust rewards ‘Heroes of the Month’