The Governor Kashim Shettima-led APC national peace and reconciliation committee set up over crisis in the South West says it consoled aggrieved members and reassured them of possible inclusiveness. The committee said this, yesterday, in a 60-page report of analytical findings and far-reaching recommendations submitted to the party’s National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, in Abuja. The panel said it also sought the inputs of the aggrieved on how to increase APC’s chances in the South West ahead of the 2019 elections. Governor Shettima, who chaired the committee, sent copies of the report accompanied by a formal letter addressed to Oshiomhole, both of which were delivered to the party chairman by the committee’s secretariat. The committee had Governors Nasir el-Rufai and Akinwunmi Ambode, former Senate president, Senator Ken Nnamani, former deputy governor of Ekiti State, Professor Modupe Adelabu, the D-G, NIMASA, Dr. Dakuku Peterside and Barrister Sa’ida Sa’ad Bugaje as members. In his letter to Oshiomhole, the governor said rather than converging members for a public presentation, the committee delivered the report through its secretariat, in response to the chairman’s passion and eagerness to address areas of concern in the South West to reposition and strengthen the APC in the geo-political zone. The committee’s secretary, Isa Gusau, said in a statement emailed to journalists, that the delivery was to ensure timely report that would be useful to the party rather than a delayed public presentation. Gusau said the report contained submissions by members from consultative meetings and the committee’s interactive hearings in Ado-Ekiti for Ondo and Ekiti states; in Ibadan for Osun and Oyo states and in Lagos for Ogun and Lagos states. The statement recalled that the committee had met with Vice President Yemi Osinbajo and other leaders including Governor of Ogun State, Ibikunle Amosun as well as party leaders from the six states.  Shettima-led APC c’ttee meets ‘strategic’ allies Reconciliation c’ttees to find ‘in-house-solution’ in APC — Oshiomhole Emulate Ambode: Shettima, el-Rufai urge aggrieved APC aspirants