There was pandemonium yesterday at the AUD Primary School, Irona, Ado-Ekiti, as a lunatic chased teachers and pupils away and consolidated on the school as his abode. A source said the lunatic had been chasing teachers and pupils with stones anytime he saw them within the school premises. The madman had taken over no fewer than 10 blocks of classrooms, which he filled with huge refuse, while he had been sleeping in one of the classrooms. It was also gathered that aside the lunatic, the school has become a hideout for suspected rapists, burglars and Indian hemp smokers. These problems were said to have led to a drop in the enrolment figure in the school as parents, scared of the activities of the lunatic and criminals, had withdrawn their wards. The Head Teacher, Mrs Taibat Yusuf, told journalists that she had called for the intervention of the state government as the activities of the lunatic and suspected criminals increasingly constituted threats to learning in the school. Yusuf said, “We are calling on the state government to intervene and help us evacuate the lunatic from the school compound because of the threat he poses to pupils and staff. “The lunatic chases our pupils, throws stones at teachers and always threatens them. Teachers and pupils are always gripped by fear that he may invade their classrooms anytime, and this won’t make them to concentrate. “Our school compound has been turned to a den of rapists, Indian hemp smokers and other criminals and this has led to the withdrawal of many pupils from the school. “Besides, we want government to renovate the collapsing fence, which gives easy access to the lunatic and men of the underworld. Many of our classrooms have become dilapidated, and the school also needs a strong gate as a form of security for teachers and pupils.” An old pupil of the school, Alhaji Olohunkemi Tajudeen Ogunjobi, who lamented the sorry state of his alma mater, also called for assistance from the state government. Ogunjobi said, “It is a pity that a school which I attended has been turned to the abode of a madman and criminals. Security of the teachers and their pupils is not guaranteed. The enrolment in the school has dropped from over 150 pupils to less than 30 because of all these problems. “We want the police and Civil Defence officers to come here and arrest the lunatic. Besides, government should also employ a day security man and a night watchman to guard the school. “The dilapidated classrooms should be demolished to have an open field in which pupils can play and can also be rented out for social functions to generate revenue. “It is unbelievable that the school, which was beautiful and an envy of other schools in those days, has turned to something else. We need the intervention of government and other well-meaning individuals.”  When teachers prey on their students How infrastructural decay affects basic education in rural Kano Story of Kaduna’s overcrowded school