Kaduna state governor, Malam Nasir  El-Rufai, has said the political forces that the All Progressives Congress, APC, defeated in 2015 have ganged up to stop President Muhammad Buhari and other APC candidates but said they will fail. He urged the APC leadership to again mobilise the people to reject the forces at the ballot. The governor said he is seeking re-election as governor to consolidate on his achievements in the past three and a half years. El-Rufai who launched the door-to-door campaign across the state while flagging-off  the All Progressives Congress (APC) campaign in Kaduna, said his administration has taken major reforms in key sectors of the economy like education and health which has endeared his administration to the people of the state. He called on the people to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari and all APC candidates in 2019 saying the party still has lot do to clear the mess left by the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). Flags were later presented to the senatorial, House of representatives and state House of Assembly candidates of the party in the state. APC Deputy national organising secretary, Muhammed Sani, who spoke at the flag-off, called on the electorates to vote President Muhammadu Buhari, Governor Nasir El-Rufai and all other candidates of the party. Sani said APC will be expecting millions votes for President Buhari in 2019 as they voted in 2015 polls. “The national leadership of APC is quite proud of the leadership of Kaduna state governor.  We will render support to the victory of Governor Nasir El-Rufai and all APC candidates in Kaduna state,” he said. On his part, Kaduna APC state deputy chairman, Alhaji Shuaibu Idris, told opposition that there is no vacancies in Presidential Villa and Kaduna state government House as the current occupants have performed credibly well and need no replacement in 2019. Also speaking, Garba Datti Babawo, member representing Sabon Gari federal constituency and chairman caucus House of Representatives members from Kaduna state, called on the electorates to vote all APC candidates, saying only APC that laid the foundation will transform the nation. Dr. Sani Bello, a former Peoples Democratic Party( PDP) Kaduna state governorship aspirant who recently decamped to the APC urged his supporters to vote all APC candidates in 2019, adding that having observed PDP his former party, only APC will work for Nigerians. Men who want to unseat el-Rufai Frank says El-rufai lied on Atiku''s contribution to APC 2015 campaign Why Kaduna APC leaders want Buhari, El-Rufai re-elected