The University of Maiduguri Muslim Women Association (UMMWA) has introduced a psychosocial support and skills acquisition project called Ra’ayin Mata (Voice of Women) aimed at mitigating the Boko Haram-inflicted trauma among women in Borno State. Under the project, UMMWA is already engaging women in selected communities in Maiduguri Metropolitan Council (MMC) and Benishek in Kaga Local Government Area. The project, which started in February, 2018, is billed to end, February, 2019. It is executed through the Nigeria Stability and Reconciliation Programme (NSRP) with funding support from the British Council. “The project seeks to develop the emotional and psychosocial capacity of women out of the trauma of the violent conflict,” Hajiya Hassan Ibrahim Waziri, the Ameera of the association, told Kanem Trust in Maiduguri, Sunday. “It is aimed at building the capacity of the women in life skills by bolstering their confidence, self-worth and self-esteem, engaging in such issues around violence as reconciliation, negotiation and mediation. Hajiya Hassana Waziri said apart from the life skills training, “Ra’ayin Mata’’ was also aimed at building trust between UMMWA and the women, from selected communities. She said the women would be trained to undertake certain activities like engaging in dialogue sessions with customary gatekeepers, government officials, security agencies and political parties on security and community development issues. She said the life skills imparted in the women was a therapy against the trauma, and it would enable them express themselves with utmost self-confidence. “It will also assist them to identify their own challenges because of their vulnerability and trauma and to conduct participatory mapping of community needs and concerns such as security.’’ The UMMWA Ameera said the women with customary gatekeepers and other stakeholders, would also identify and discuss such issues as bride price which has continued to incapacitate the male and female youths wishing to marry. “We are introducing the mediation aspect as soon as the Ra’ayin Mata project ends, and this mediation aspect is to focus on conflicts that can escalate to violence,” the Ameera said.