The Bauchi State governorship candidates for the 2019 general elections have signed a peace accord which will ensure a peaceful conduct of elections in the state. The All Progressives Congress (APC) candidate; Governor Mohammed Abdullahi, Peoples Democratic (PDP) candidate; Senator Bala Abdulkadir Mohammed, People Redemption Party (PRP); Professor Mohammed Ali Pate as well as other candidates attended the event which took place at the Bauchi office of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) on Friday. The peace accord signing was facilitated by the Inter-agency Consultative Committee on Election Security (ICCES). In a keynote address, the Vice chancellor, Abubakar Tafawa Balewa University (ATBU), Professor Saminu Abdulrahman reminded the politicians that, the main essence of democracy was to provide choice for citizens to elect the best candidates. He noted that democratic power comes from the people who holds the power to elect who they want as representatives and leaders and as such, politicians should showcase their abilities instead of engaging in violent campaigns. Speaking, the head of INEC Election and Party Monitoring unit, Ahmed Alhaji Waziri said that, the essence of the pact was to ensure the conduct of peaceful campaign and elections by the political parties and their candidates. “We therefore, appeal to all relevant stakeholders to ensure compliance to the laid down procedures so as to achieve a desired objective of having a free, fair and credible election devoid of violence,” he said. Bauchi State commissioner of police, Sanusi N. Lemu said that, the peace accord was a step towards realising a peaceful election in 2019 in the State. Lemu, who was represented by DCP Adamu Alhaji Aliyu, called on the candidates and their supporters to shun violence, hate speeches and embrace the ideals contained in the peace accord. Bauchi: Governor Abubakar, Pate, Bala others to sign peace accord today 2019: Abubakar, Pate, Bala Mohammed, 22 others make INEC list for Bauchi governorship Governor Abubakar, other APC guber aspirants spat over indirect primaries