The Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) has said that it has over 25 million litres of Premium Motor Spirit (PMS) otherwise known as petrol in its reservoir to ensure steady supply of the product throughout the festive season. Addressing a press conference in Kaduna, Zonal Operations Controller, Kaduna zone, Isa Tafida, said the reservoir is informed following the disruption of supply of PMS during the end of the year and New Year periods in the past. He further urged members of the general public to avoid panic purchase of petrol, storing petrol in their house and travelling with petrol in their cars saying, the department has enough of the product in stock. He urged the public to report any filling station that is engaged in sharp practices and called on them not to buy petrol from road side hawkers to avoid adulterated product that might damage their vehicles and machines. While assuring that the department is working round the clock to ensure smooth operations by the operators, he added that it is in constant contact and synergy with all the stakeholders in the downstream sector within the zone. According to him, “The supply pattern to zone has been stable and this is largely through bridging from the southern coastal deports. “The Nigerian National Petroleum Company (NNPC) has also built up strategic reserves across its hinterland and coastal storage facilities to meet up emergencies arising from price volatility in the international oil market. “During our routine surveillance and monitoring of retail outlets within the past weeks, some petroleum outlets and companies were found to be engaged in various activities that contravened the Petroleum Laws and Regulations. “DPR frowns at this and various punitive measures and sanctions were imposed on these erring operators to ensure statutory compliance.” He noted that the department is engaged in monitoring of Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) to impose compliance with Standards Operating Procedure (SOP) and ensure the facilities operate optimally and safely to safeguard lives and properties of the public. Sallah: DPR deploys 197 fuel trucks to FCT Yuletide: DPR urges fuel marketers to desist from creating artificial scarcity Nigeria’s depots stocked with 356m litres of fuel  –  DPR