About 3,250 members of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) in Kogi state including two former commissioners under the immediate past administration in the state on Thursday defected to the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) ahead of the 2019 election. Receiving the decampees at the township stadium in Kabba, the headquarters of Kogi West during the official flag-off of APC rally,  the zonal chairman of the party, Mr Ropo Asagun, said two commissioners that served under the immediate past administration were among the over 3, 000 PDP members that decamped to the ruling party. He noted that the defection was an indication that APC is generally acceptable in Kogi West, promising that the party would not discriminate against any member whether old or new. In his speech, the Speaker of Kogi State House of Assembly, Matthew Kolawole, cautioned electorate in the state not to sell their Permanent Voters Card (PVC). The Speaker who was optimistic that the APC will win the presidential election said the achievements of President Muhammadu Buhari in the last three years had endeared the electorate to again vote for him. “In the last three and half years, President Buhari and his Vice have done a lot for the country what the PDP could not do for Nigerians in sixteen years”, he said. He urged the people of Kogi West to vote for Senator Smart Adeyemi whom he described as a lawmaker that has the interest of his people at heart, saying his antecedents while in the Senate would spur the people to vote for him. Also speaking, a former Managing Director of Daily Trust newspaper, Ishaq Ajibola maintained that Yagba people have really benefited immensely from Governor Yahaya Bello in the areas of political appointments and execution of projects. He enjoined the people of the district to support and vote for all the candidates of the APC in order to enjoy more dividends of democracy. In his vote of thanks, Senator Smart Adeyemi promised on behalf of other APC candidates in Kogi West that they will lead by example if given the opportunity to serve the state. Why State Assembly polls may go presidential way in Kogi How PDP is picking its pieces in Kogi New p 16 for page planning