Miyetti-Allah Cattle Breeders Association of Nigeria have adopted President Muhammadu Buhari and the Niger State Governor Alhaji Abubakar Sani Bello as its candidates for the 2019 general elections. The National President of the Association, Alhaji Muhammadu Kiruwa Ardon Zuru made the body’s stand known at the official inauguration of Fulani Volunteers Group in Minna on Wednesday. The national president said the adoption of the two leaders was as a result of the programmes initiated by the Federal and Niger State Government which have impacted positively on their lives. Alhaji Kiruwa particularly hailed the two leaders for their initiatives to revive grazing reserves, adding that the singular efforts have endeared both leaders to the Association. He said while the federal government was making efforts to address the conflicts thrown up by shortage of grazing areas for herders, which set them against farmers, its Niger state counterpart identified existing reserves and was making efforts to provide necessary infrastructure in same. The national leadership therefore directed all States Chairmen to ensure that all eligible voters among their members obtain PVCs to enable them vote leaders that enjoy the support of the herders. He said this was the first time that their members would reap the dividends of democracy for a very long time. Speaking on Fulani Volunteer Group, Alhaji Kiruwa Zuru promised that the Association would device means of supporting their activities by providing them with uniforms, vehicles and other logistics to enhance their operations. He announced that over 10,000 youths have denounced armed robbery kidnapping and cattle rustling,adding that some of such youths have  surrendered weapons in Niger State. He also disclosed  that over 7,000 weapons were recovered in Sokoto Kebbi and Zamfara states. He stressed the need for Fulani Volunteer Group to work harmoniously with security agencies to check insecurity across the country. Miyetti Allah backs Buhari, Sani Bello for 2019 polls Miyetti Allah reiterates calls for grazing reserve Anti-grazing law: Miyetti-Allah raises alarm over mass eviction of Fulanis