Governor Ibikunle Amosun of Ogun State and the National Chairman of Allied Peoples Movement (APM), Alhaji Yusuf Dantalle, yesterday, met President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa in Abuja. Expulsion had been dangling over Governor Amosun over his romance with the APM, the party which his preferred candidate for the Ogun governorship race, Abdulkabir Adekunle Akinlade defected to and picked its ticket ahead of next year’s election. Akinlade and other key loyalists of the governor dumped the All Progressives Congress (APC) following the uproar that trailed the party’s primaries in the state. Highpoint of Amosun and Dantalle’s visit to the Villa was the presentation of a letter adopting President Buhari as the presidential candidate of the APM for the 2019 Presidential election. In an interview with State House reporters after the meeting, Governor Amosun said they came to the Villa to present the adoption letter to the president. “You will recall that just last week we made public that APM has adopted President Buhari as their presidential candidate. I had promised to bring the letter they gave me to present to him and that is what we came to do today. And you know Mr. President is a very gracious human being, he is a man with a good heart. He said if a party has adopted him, it is only fair he acknowledges the party and the chairman. That is why we are here,” he said. “I have said that anybody that is for President Muhammadu Buhari is for me; we will embrace such party, such persons, such organization wholeheartedly and that is what I am doing and that is what we are doing in Ogun State. Clearly Mr. President will have a massive vote in Ogun State in the coming election,” he said. On the threat by the National Working Committee of the APC to expel him over anti party posturing, he said: “I don’t want to comment on that. We came for this, let’s restrict ourselves to this.” Amosun dares Oshiomhole, says Ogun APC excos will complete tenure Allied party adopts Buhari in Ogun Amosun dares Oshiomhole: ‘Ogun APC excos will complete tenures’