The Lagos State Commissioner for Agriculture, Mr Toyin Suarau yesterday confirmed delay in availability of Lagos-Kebbi (Lake) rice as sales commenced across the state on Monday. Speaking with Daily Trust on Monday, the commissioner attributed the delay to the Lagos state government’s inability to obtain transportation from Kebbi to Lagos. “Transporters prefer to convey cows and rams rather than rice paddy because those ones are lighter than rice. Some people have paid three months ago for their rice in Kebbi. I used my influence and relationships with the government to get my rice. Infact, I returned from Kebbi few days ago to ensure that the rice is available in Lagos”, he said. Contrary to reports by some media organisations that the lake rice would not be available in December 2018, the Commissioner said the rice is now available at all designated locations. “The rice is available at all locations, including the Lagos television (LTV) premises; Agricultural Development Authority, Oko Oba in Agege; Surulere, Ikorodu and other places in the state.” Confirming the sales, Mrs Omolara Yusuf said the rice was brought in to the premises of the  LTV late Monday afternoon. According to her, residents have already started buying the rice at the usual N12, 000 for 50kg, N6, 000 for 25kg and N3, 000 for 10kg. Another resident who claimed anonymity said the rice is available at the Lagos Island local government. According to the Commissioner, “Government will ensure continuous availability of the product at the designated centers to further ensure food sufficiency in the state. Our goal is to stop rice importation and ensure that only locally produced rice is consumed by residents. Unlike the imported rice, the Lake rice is fresh and wholesome with minimal storage duration compared to the other ones that spend years at the storage.” WACOT Rice, ownership and food security Dangote set to invest N165b in rice production in 5 states N54bn not enough for Anchor Borrowers’ Programme – Kebbi governor