The All Progressives Congress (APC) in Kwara State, yesterday, said it has reported the alleged misdemeanour of Justice T. S. Umar of the state High Court to the National Judicial Commission (NJC). Justice Umar had on Wednesday said the dissolution of the APC executives led by Ishola Balogun-Fulani loyal to Senate President Bukola Saraki by the National Working Committee (NWC) of the party was illegal, null and void. Addressing journalists in Ilorin, the state capital, the embattled APC chairman in the state, Hon. Bashir Bolarinwa said the conduct of Justice Umar during the trial smacked of alleged compromise. He said since the commencement of the case in July, 2018, Ishola Balogun-Fulani and his cohorts had always boasted to whoever cared to listen that the Kwara State judiciary was in the pocket and full grip and control of one man. Bolarinwa said, “I wish to intimate you that every conduct of Justice T. S. Umar that made the judgement no news has been documented and forwarded by our lawyers to the Chief Judge of Nigeria as the chairman of the National Judicial Commission and copied to the chief judge of the state. “As believers in the rule of law and ability of the judiciary to dispense justice without fear or favour and in the best tradition of incorruptible judiciary, we refused to take their boisterous attitude and utterances as mere psychological ego massaging,” he said. According to him “The developments that culminated in the judgement and the conduct of T.S. Umar in the course of trial have proved to us that our absolute belief in the impartiality and absolute integrity of every judicial officer is grossly misplaced in the instance case. “It is therefore not surprising that since Friday, when the case was adjourned to Wednesday for judgement, Ishola Balogun-Fulani and his cohorts and their sponsors have been assuring their fellow PDP members that their aim to weaken the train of change in the state will start to materialise as judgement in their favour is a forgone deal and conclusion. “In fact, in their fertile imagination and day-dreaming capacity, they expected that the judgement will enable them interfere with the list and names of APC candidates in Kwara State. “Let me state that the law is clear on party primaries for election of candidates and no procured judgement of any high court can change the established position as stated and restated by the apex court in Nigeria. “Therefore, all our 24 state House of Assembly, six House of Representatives, three senatorial, governorship and presidential candidates elected at the primaries conducted by the NWC in line with Article 13.4 (v) and (xiv) of the constitution of the party remain the authentic candidates that will fly APC’s flag at the 2019 general elections,” he added. Kwara: Court declares Ishola Fulani-led APC excos authentic Our committee remains authentic APC executive in Kwara - Bolarinwa Our committee remain authentic APC executive in Kwara - Bolarinwa