Kwara state commissioner of police, Fafowora Bolaji, has advised the people of Jimba Oja community in Kwara South against selling on credit to police officers in the area. He gave the warning on Tuesday during the commissioning of the KAMWIRE police post Jimba Oja built by the KAM Industry Ltd. He said the advice became necessary so that no officer will owe anybody in the community whenever such officer is transferred out of the area. “Under no circumstance should any trader allow a crying down credit or sell on credit to our officers and this is because they can be transferred out of the post at any time,” Bolaji said. The CP while commending the KAMWIRE for the edifice said he was impressed with the gesture of the industrialist adding that his command will ensure that lives and property of the company and people of the community are well protected with the available human and material resources at their disposal. Earlier, the Chairman of Manufacturers Association of Nigeria, (MAN), Kwara/Kogi Chapter and Chief Executive Officer of KAM industries Nigeria Limited, Dr. Kamorudeen Yusuf, has described community policing as capable of encouraging collaboration between the police and community. He added that it will also enhance identification of security challenges in the neighbourhood and proffers workable solutions as against traditional method. Represented by the Vice Chairman of the Company, Dr. Bolanle Yusuf, the frontline industrialist further said: “Community policing will provide an expanded outlook on crime control and prevention. “While, crime control and prevention remain the central priority to both, in Community Policing, the Police and the Community members become active members in addressing the problem of crimes/insecurity, disorders or neglect which can include gang activities, abandoned houses/warehouses, abandoned cars/vehicles, bushes in the neighbourhood which can serve as (criminal hideouts) and subcultures, among others. “These are activities that may not be defined as criminality in the early stage but may later metamorphose into criminal insurgency type. May I use this opportunity to advise they will have more resources available for crime prevention activities instead of being forced into an ‘after-the-fact response to crime’ that we have been experiencing. “The good people of Jimba-Oja community are peace loving people but as we all know, for every 12 apostles, there is a Judas (misfit). Therefore, this police station is to serve as watch tower against the few misfits in our midst who will now and henceforth think twice before going against the law. The arm of the law is no longer short to catch them.” She however maintained that, “we are seeing the official opening of this complex which promises to bring more meaning to community development and enhance not only a safe environment but a more vibrant commercial life. “The building houses a front desk, offices for crime, officers administration and Head of the Crime unit, an Armory and  Guard rooms or Holding cells. There are ample spaces in front of the station for parking. We have also ensured that the conveniences provided are modern.”