Ibadan family heads, popularly called Mogajis, on Monday warned the five leading governorship candidates in Oyo state to desist from inducing its members with money. The group disowned some members going around extorting money from the candidates in the name of Ibadan Mogajis, saying “what we want for the state is good governance, not monetary inducement.” In a statement by the group on Monday in Ibadan, the spokesperson of the Mogajis, Wale Oladoja, said that electing the next governor of the state will be based on fear of God and antecedents. He said the group won’t do anything against the wish of the people of Ibadan land and the state at large, urging them to exercise their civic right diligently. The group had earlier issued a statement last week supporting five candidates among the 37 candidates contesting for the governorship seat of the state. According to the group, the candidates are: Akogun Sarafadeen Alli (ZLP), Engr. Seyi Makinde (PDP), Chief Bayo Adelabu (APC), Chief Adebayo Alao-Akala (ADP) and Senator Olufemi Lanlehin (ADC). “We will soon be going to their family houses to find out their positive impacts on their relatives. We want to know their pedigree and antecedents. What they have done to better the lives of their people. “We called on the people of Oyo state to cooperate with our members when they get to their family house, to reveal the truth whoever is coming to represent their family, so that we can have the best people in government. “We need the support of the media, religious bodies, traditional institutions, and the entire residents of Oyo state to support us in our effort to make the state great again. It is our state and we deserve the best. “No candidate should give money to any member of authentic Mogajis of Ibadanland to influence our stand. “We will not do anything against the will of the people of Ibadan and Oyo state in general. The selection of new governor for Oyo state will be based on antecedents, human relations, fear of God, religions they belong and other humanitarian factors. “We are using this opportunity to call on all the good people of Oyo state to join us in selecting good person to rule us in the next four years,” he said. Ibadan mogajis decry too many gov’ship candidates in Oyo Oyo 2019: A clash of gladiators Supremacy: How far can Olubadan, new Obas go?