The Minister of State I for Power, Works and Housing, Mr Mustapha Shehuri has summoned to the ministry, the contractor handling the three-storey compendium block at the Delta State site of the National Housing Programme over the slow pace of work. Shehuri summoned the contractor, Prince Hood Construction Limited, while on inspection tour of ongoing Federal Government projects in the state on Saturday in Asaba He said that the contractor was summoned to explain reasons for the slow pace of work at the project site. The minister said that the contractor should have gone beyond the foundation stage of the project as the company had already been mobilised and paid twice for two stages of work. “I am inviting the contractor to the ministry in Abuja to explain why he will collect his mobilization, payment for second and third stage and abandon the project. “If he fails to comply within next week, I will make sure I revoke the contract because this government is not ready to tolerate any form of indiscipline. “The invitation is to see him, listen to his explanation, give him time to go back to site and work for what he has collected. “If he fails to comply, I will write to the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC) chairman to get him arrested and made to return the money,” he said. Mr Godwin Otobo, the National Housing Programme Team Leader in Delta, said the project had 28 units of two bedroom semi-detached bungalows, 16 units of three bedrooms. He said that the three story condominium block had four units of one bedroom flats, 16 units of two bedrooms and four units of three bedrooms. The team leader said that the site has 12 contractors and had completed eight units of two bedrooms semi-detached bungalows with others at various stages of completion. Otobo said that 10 hectares of land was provided by the Delta State Government for the project, adding that there was still provision to replicate the existing buildings at the back of the site. (NAN) NHP: FG appraises construction work in south-east Minister frowns at slow pace of work on Benin-Auchi-Okene road project FG to explore public-private partnership in road construction