An ultra-modern market with state-of-the-art facilities that will boost the economy of Kano and Northern Nigeria in general is set to take off. In this interview, Engr. Rabiu Sa’id, Director, M. N. Ataj Construction Ltd., the real estate development company partnering with Aventus Industries Limited to handle the Dalar Gyada Market project gives details: Why the name Dalar Gyada? Groundnut pyramids, generally referred to in Hausa as Dalar Gyada, were the invention of Alhassan Dantata. He was a prominent nut trader who came to Kano in the early 1900s and within five years of his arrival became a very successful businessman. Groundnut pyramids were built all across Kano in cities like Kofar Mazugal, Brigade, Bebeji, Malam Madori and Dawakin Kudu. The pyramids became synonymous with Nigeria’s agricultural wealth. The pyramids were formed in a way where bags of groundnut were placed systematically into a magnificent masterpiece similar to the pyramids of Egypt. The breathtaking pyramids were a sight to behold. Whenever it was time to place the last bag of groundnut on the peak of a pyramid, people would leave whatever they were doing to go there and watch how it was done. The pyramids became a sight for tourism beside their basic commercial value. The Kofar Mazugal site of the Dalar Gyada has now become a vacant land with no activity going on, except for people learning how to drive cars, etc. Previous attempts were made to restore this historical site to its former status to no avail. Hence the decision by our company to partner with Aventus Industries Limited to acquire this site and turn it into a modern market, perhaps the first of its kind in core Northern Nigeria. Tell us about your company. M.N. Ataj Construction Ltd started as a Civil Engineering and Construction Company duly registered with the Corporate Affairs Commission incorporated on the 1st day of August, 2007. We later on forayed into real estate development, heavily tilting towards commercial retail developments, specializing in development and re-development of markets, shopping malls, etc. Aventus Industries Limited is also into the business of real estate and general construction, having undertaken some projects in Kano and Abuja. But your company is more or less Abuja based? Yes, actually we are based in Abuja, having been the lead developer of markets and other commercial retail developments in the Capital City. We have over the years developed or are developing various markets in Abuja like the 2,400 shops, completed Kubwa Model Market by Army Housing Scheme, among many other projects. Outside FCT, we have been engaged by the Kaduna State Govt to re-model the main Market in Zaria City known as Sabon Gari Market. This project is also at the implementation stage as issues of re-location, compensation, etc. are being sorted out. Also, our proposals and bid process with the Plateau State government for the reconstruction of the Jos Terminus Market have reached an advanced stage. Kano State should follow in the same direction to improve economic activities in the state. Developing a world-class market like Dalar Gyada would help generate revenue internally for the government as well as improve the livelihood of the people of Kano. Considering there is no other market as sophisticated and classy as Dalar Gyada in Kano, this is a positive step in the right direction to encourage more economic activities and attract investment to the state. Developing a market of this scale with the state-of-the-art facility and architecture would generally boost the domestic and international economic growth of the state. Where is the Dalar Gyada market located? Dalar Gyada market is located at the heart of Kano State and as stated earlier at the exact location of the Kofar Mazugal Dalar Gyada site. It is strategically placed in the middle of all existing markets in Kano. Dalar Gyada is just meters away from Kasuwar Kwari, Kasuwar Wambai, Kasuwar Kurmi, Kasuwar Singer, Sabon Gari Market and Hajj Camp. Dalar Gyada Market is strategically placed near all the major markets in Kano which will enable it to seamlessly connect with the existing markets and enhance trading activities for the Kano business community. When completed what will the market consist of? The Dalar Gyada market will have more than 4,000 shops within over 100 blocks, consisting of open shops, lock-up shops, warehouses and banking halls. The design of the market enables shop owners and even customers easy access and abundant parking spaces, which are major issues in all the existing markets in Kano. There are more than 400 parking spaces in the market. A facility management team will set up a state-of-the-art office that will take care of the electrical equipment, sewage system, cleaning, refuse disposal, pest control and the water supply. A fire service department will also be in place in the event of a fire outbreak. The entrance and exit gates will be fully automated for total control of revenue generations and to prevent possible leakages of revenue in that area. There will also be service charge levy per annum to be paid by all shop owners covering security services, cleaning & refuse disposals etc. The market will, upon completion, have facilities, including toilets that will be accessible by shop owners and customers, mosque, fire department on standby in case of a fire outbreak and any other emergency situation, as well as a police station, filling station and clinic. Kano’s N8bn Dalar-Gyada market set for takeoff Firm to float N8bn Kano Dalar Gyada market Coy to revive Kano groundnut pyramid market