The Speaker of the House of Representatives, Hon. Yakubu Dogara has said the All Progressive Congress, APC-led government had failed the North East, calling on the region to vote the party out come 2019 elections. According to a statement by his media aide Turaki Hassan, Dogara who was speaking in Gombe, at the North East zonal campaign and rally of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP), lamented that “Boko Haram insurgency is still fresh, in fact in PDP there was never a time when in one day when more than one hundred soldiers were killed. “In any other country, that would have made their security forces to declare a national emergency, but here it didn’t happen. God forbid, is that the Nigeria that we want going forward? Do you know that today, you cannot travel between Kaduna and Abuja? It is very difficult. Most of the people that can afford it are always commuting by train, and we thank God for the railways that was almost 95% completed by the PDP Government, before APC took over. If you travel by road, there is a 70% chance that you’ll be kidnapped. In those days however, kidnapping was very strange in the Northern part of this country.” He urged the people of the North East to vote massively for the PDP for the development of the region saying, “we people in the North East have so much in this election. This election is not about PDP and APC, it is not about Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and President Muhammadu Buhari, it is between you and as an individual Nigerian and a government that has not fulfill the expectations of Nigerian people, expectations of the people of the North East. “We have the North East Development Commission that is supposed to kickstart the work of rebuilding the region but unfortunately, it has not been constituted up to now. For more than three years, we have advocated for the convocation of an international donor conference to raise fund for the development of the North East [but] unfortunately, the Federal government has not done anything about it.” Speaker Dogara noted that the current administration had failed in securing the lives and properties of Nigerians, stressing that in spite of all the blame game, security in its current state was worst than under PDP rule. Why Nigerians should support Buhari – Duhu Buhari failed to deliver his mandate – Atiku Saraki, Dogara: Danger signals for a ruling party