Hearing will continue on March 1, 2019 on the trial of an estate agent, Mr Emmanuel Omuojine, who was alleged to have defrauded Ojukwu Transport Ltd (OTL) of various sums of money totalling N182 million. The case came up on Monday but was adjourned till next year. Omuojine, who was described as an agent to Mrs Bianca Ojukwu, widow of the late Ikemba Nnewi, Chief Odumegwu Ojukwu, is standing trial before Justice Hakeem Oshodi of an Ikeja High Court, Lagos, on a 10-count charge bordering on stealing by fraudulent conversion, obtaining money by false pretence and forgery. According to the police, Omuojine and others at large, while operating under the name of Omuojine & Associates between 2007 and 2010, conspired to steal money collected as rents from tenants on behalf of Ojukwu Transport Ltd. The police also accused Omuojine of forging a document titled ‘Re: Ojukwu Transport Ltd Properties Under Your Management’, purporting same to have been made by one Stephen Edeh, ‘Secretary’ to Ojukwu Transport Ltd. The defendant was also accused of collecting the sum of N44m as rent from West African Offshore Ltd on January 22, 2007 on behalf of Ojukwu Transport Ltd, and fraudulently converting the money to his own use and benefit. Omuojine had pleaded not guilty to the charges. At the last adjourned date before Monday, the prosecution witness, Dr Ike Ojukwu, who is a Director in OTL, told the court that Omuojine had admitted to collecting rent belonging to OTL and handing the money to Bianca Ojukwu, whom the witness maintained was neither a shareholder, director or officer of the company, nor was there any authorisation by the OTL to that effect. Dr Ojukwu, who was led in evidence by police prosecutor, Mr Emmanuel Jackson, told the court that Omuojine had, during police investigation, said Bianca Ojukwu had been invited on numerous occasions by the police to make a statement but had declined. According to the witness, the police even offered to travel to Enugu to take her statement at her residence, but she still declined to make one. “The invitations have been by both telephone and in writing, including one by the Commissioner of Police, General Investigations, FCIID, Abuja, J. Mava, dated August 31, 2017. “Bianca’s refusal to make a statement, though she was directly implicated by Mr Omuojine, is on the IGP’s table awaiting action. They insist that she is not above the law, regardless of ‘profile’ or ‘connections’”, Ike Ojukwu said. Court to hear late Ojukwu’s son suit Jun 25 ‘My younger lover must marry me, or refund my investment on him’ N22.8 bn fraud: Court to resume trial of Amosu, 10 others Nov. 7