The General Officer Commanding (GOC), 82 Division of the Nigerian Army, Enugu, Maj.- Gen. Emmanuel Kabuk, has called on  officers in his division to strive to contribute positive values towards enhancing office and barracks environment. The GOC gave the advice on Tuesday while inaugurating a re-modelled 82 Division Headquarters Regimental Quarter Guard Building in the Division’s Headquarters, Enugu. Also, Kabuk declared open the 2018 Regimental Quarter Guard Drill Competition for formations under the Division. According to him, officers must emulate the positive virtues of adding something new and befitting in any environment they serve. “This idea and initiative of adding something new and positive to the working environment is part of the Chief of Army Staff (COAS). Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai’s vision of professionalism in the Nigerian Army. “This remodelled Regimental Quarter Guard Office will add to the beauty as well as improve the first impression visitors have about this Division’s Headquarter, since it is the first point of call. “This Division is also rated high in terms of competency, dedication and commitment to duty; and this new remodelled Regimental Quarter Guard Building will create a good and favourable first impression among visitors,” Kabuk said. The GOC further said that he single-handedly funded the remodelled Regimental Quarter Guard Building as his personal commitment to uplift the Division. Meanwhile, the five formations under the Division participated in the Regimental Quarter Guard Drill Competition. In the competition, 103 Battalion (Baby Dragon), Akwunannaw in Enugu came first among the formations. Also, 82 Division Garrison, Enugu came second, 14 Brigade in Ohafia came third, 34 Brigade in Owerri came fourth while 13 Brigade in Calabar  took the fifth position. Officers, soldiers in 82 Division must handle security challenges professionally – GOC GOC charges SUG on cultism eradication in institutions We must handle security challenges professionally — GOC