The Minister of Industry, Trade and Investment, Dr. Okechukwu Enelamah, has said the current administration believes a conducive business environment is crucial to achieving the government’s diversification agenda. Dr. Enelamah pointed out that even though significant milestones had already been recorded, the greatest effect was only possible with the active collaboration of state and local governments. Enelamah was speaking at the 10th meeting of the National Council on Industry, Trade and Investment meeting held in Umuahia recently. The meeting had its theme: “Ease of Doing Business: The Role of States and Local Governments”. The minister pointed out that President Muhammadu Buhari had shown strong political will by establishing and supporting the Presidential Enabling Business Environment Council (PEBEC) with an ambitious mandate of removing constraints and bottlenecks in doing business in Nigeria; and by signing the Executive Order 001 which promoted transparency. The minister took stock of some of the successes recorded by the government so far in diverse areas. “Business registration in Nigeria can now be concluded within 48 hours with the automated platform by the Corporate Affairs Commission (CAC),” he said. On trading across borders, Enelamah listed some of the completed reforms to include reduction in import documentation requirements from 14 to eight and export documents from 10 to seven, introduction of advance cargo manifests and scheduling of joint physical examination anchored by the customs service. Other reforms include the passage and signing into law of two bills to ease access to credit for MSMEs. “These two bills are the Secured Transactions in Movable Assets Act 2017 and the Credit Reporting Act 2017,” Enelamah said. He stated that the Bank of Industry (BOI) had “reviewed its credit processes to customers with a view to reducing the turn-around time associated with loan applications and approvals. BOI has also reformed loan application process to provide clear and easily accessible information to the public on processes, timelines, fees and conditions. “Technologies were deployed to improve service delivery in the ministries in the areas of SME platform, digitising and simplifying the provision of government services. Examples include Commercial Law Department in our ministry, digitising One Stop Investment Centre and Pioneer Status Incentives Processes at the Nigeria Investment Promotion Council,” he said. Enelamah also disclosed that the Federal Government, on July 27, 2018, issued a directive compelling all Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) to comply with the ease of doing business reforms. “These reforms are beginning to yield positive results on the World Bank’s ease of doing business ranking. The World Bank also ranked Nigeria during the first three years of President Buhari’s administration as one of the 10 most reformed and improved economies in the world,” he said. The minister said the next frontier of these reforms could only work with the active collaboration of state and local governments who needed to come up with relevant doing business reforms, knowing fully well that the real impact of the enabling environment and ease of doing business reforms must be felt on the ground at the state and local government levels. Sokoto giving boost to industrialization - Tambuwal FG reiterates commitment to diversify nation’s economy FG plans 18,000km of fibre optic