A renowned Islamic Scholar, Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi has called on governments in the country  to allow scholars engaged in Tsangaya Schools to administer them to ensure the success Almajiri Schools programme. He made the call at the graduation ceremony of 1,678 Tsangaya students from across many states in the country held at Abubakar Tafawa Balewa Stadium Bauchi. Sheikh Bauchi, who was represented by his son, Alhaji Ibrahim Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, lamented that, Tsangaya Islamic Schools owners have been sidelined in the implementation of the programme. He said this was the reason for the slow progress of the implementation of the Almajiri Schools Programme in the North. He said that the move to integrate the schools into the mainstream educational system would provide many opportunities for children to have both Islamic and western education and keep them off streets. “The integration of Tsangaya and Islamic education in to modern educational system of Nigeria will go a long way in the eradication of proliferation of  street begging,”he said. The Islamic scholar stressed the importance of memorization the Noble Qur’an and urged Muslims to join hands in order to promote qur’anic and Islamic education for the wellbeing of the society and development of the country. He congratulated the graduating students and their parents for their resilience and commitment which helped them to achieve success. In his speech the Director  of Education, Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi Foundation, Sayyadi Aliyu Sise Sheikh Dahiru said that, 380 pupils who memorised the Qur’an graduated from Bauchi, 268 from  Kano State, 63 from, another 63 from Kaduna and  15 from Adamawa. Others are Kwara state with 38 pupils and Katsina State has the highest number  with 571 pupils. In his address, the Headmaster, Madrasatu Markazussaqafiyyil Islam Kobi Bauchi which is the first Islamiyyah School founded by Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi,  Mallam Hassan Adam Dahir Markazi called on parent’s, students and other stakeholders to carry out their responsibilities diligently for the success of their children. He commended Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi, for his support towards the success of the schools across the country and his contributions to the growth of Islam.