Leaders of a PDP faction in Kwara have vowed that they would not surrender their mandate to “marauders”, saying they would remain in the party to fight those planning to displace them. The acting factional chairman of the party, Chief Sunday Ibitoye, said in a statement, yesterday, that they were constrained to make that public after they waited patiently to see issues within the party resolved amicably either by their national or local leadership. Senate President Bukola Saraki, Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed and most members of the state and National Assembly from Kwara had dumped the APC for the PDP, a development that led to realignments in the leadership structure of the party in the state. Speaking on the protracted crisis that trailed the defections, Chief Ibitoye said, “Kwara PDP as you are aware was in safe hands until it was forcefully hijacked by some marauders for a price. The principle on which the party stands cannot be easily eroded by those who took over her reins just overnight. “For the avoidance of doubt, those of us that came into its leadership through a proper party convention will not surrender our offices to usurpers. While our erstwhile chairman and leader, Akogun Iyiola Oyedepo, has moved on to the opposition APC, we will remain here and fight the injustice orchestrated by those who came through the back door,” he said. “The good people of Kwara State and the world should be alerted that Kwara PDP is not for sale. Those who seemingly purchased the party for whatever price anywhere must be reminded that, we are not part of the dirty deal, therefore the struggle to reclaim our party is on course. “We wish to inform our teaming members and supporters in and out of Kwara State that we will explore every legal means to reclaim our party,” he added. But the faction loyal to Saraki said the PDP in Kwara remained united. The faction in a statement by its state Publicity Secretary, Tunde Ashaolu, said there was no faction or division within the party because Saraki remained the leader. “The people who are trying to create the impression that there is a faction within our party are nothing but impostors and jesters, who are only wasting their time,” Ashaolu said. “Their action is impolitic and we advise them to stop living in illusion. “For the purpose of clarification, the Hon. (Engr.) Kola Shittu-led State Executive Committee of the PDP was legally constituted by the appropriate organs of our great party,” he said. PDP factions emerge in Kwara PDP break-up: Obasanjo calls elders meeting PDP fails to resolve Kwara crisis