President Muhammadu Buhari yesterday ordered the police to ensure that the general elections which are due in February be conducted free of violence. Speaking during the passing out parade of the Nigeria Police Academy Wudil, Kano, the president said it is the duty of the police to ensure that the elections are conducted peacefully in across the country. “The campaigns for the 2019 elections have commenced and that means heightened political activities in the country. It is the duty of the police supported by other security agencies to adequately secure the elections,” he said. He said the police must work hard to avoid ballot box snatching, multiple voting, vote buying, attack on electoral officers and other act that can affect the smooth conduct of the elections. “You must do everything possible to make the elections violence free … for it to be adjudged credible, free and fair in the eyes of both local and international observers,” he said. Congratulating the newly commissioned officers, the President urged them to key into the administration’s quest to ensure peace in across the country. “I am delighted to be here today for the convocation and passing out parade of 602 police officers first set of regular cadet course 1 from the police Academy, Kano after five years of rigorous training. “I am happy to be the first serving president to witness the passing out parade of cadets of the Nigeria Police Academy regular cadet officers. You should consider yourselves privileged not only for being able to complete a course, but for being worthy in character, fitness and passing out as Assistant Superintendent of Police (ASP). “After your commissioning today, you will be charged with the duties and responsibilities of a police officer. It is now your duty to ensure peace and security in the country. The burden on you are enormous and onerous, it requires you to be diligent and determined in the fight against all forms of crimes in our country. 2019: Five things police must do during elections – Buhari 2019: You must ensure hitch-free election, Buhari tells police CLEEN Foundation celebrates 20 years, urges free, non-violent 2019 polls