The pioneer chairman of the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC), Mallam Nuhu Ribadu, has said that opposition against President Muhammadu Buhari will be “roundly defeated.” Ribadu said the February presidential election is a referendum between a past that should forever be forgotten and a new chapter of probity and accountability. He spoke in Yola on Monday at a ceremony to hands off his gubernatorial campaign structure, campaign offices and vehicles to the re-election bid of President Buhari. Mallam Ribadu aspired for the governorship ticket of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Adamawa state but lost to incumbent Mohammed Jibrilla. He said he and his supporters will work assiduously to ensure sound victory of President Buhari in Adamawa state. He appealed to APC supporters in the state to work towards doubling votes secured by President Buhari in the last election during the February election. “There is consensus among Nigerians of goodwill. Nobody wants return of those faces that are synonymous with our failure as a country. We have moved on; we should not allow them to drag us back. “For the past 3 years, EFCC and others have been struggling to recover wealth stolen from this country within just a few years. We are happy now that such wanton stealing is not happening. We should not allow those who have no problem with stealing our wealth to get back on the wheels,” he said. He said the people of Adamawa State have no reason not to support President Buhari due a number of achievements of the administration. “This state is a farming state. Our farmers have been supported through Anchor Borrowers. We now have fertilizer all over. “In terms of infrastructure, Adamawa is witnessing massive revolution. A number of roads are currently ongoing in the state. We have never had it so good,” he said. Ribadu also gave Buhari the credit for return of peace in the state which he said was not the case in 2015. “Many communities in Adamawa state were under Boko Haram occupation. The capital, Yola, was being threatened but today everyone is at peace, all displaced persons have been relocated to their towns. The former director general of the Ribadu Campaign Organisation, Alhaji Salihu Bawuro, said Ribadu and his campaign council agreed to hand over vehicles and other resources donated to the Ribadu campaign team to the presidential campaign of President Buhari, because of shared values. “Apart from our campaign directorate at the centre, and zones, we have structures of active youths, women and others in all wards of the state. We will all go out to ensure our beloved president is successful in the polls,” he said. Bawuro said his campaign office in the state capital and the 21 local governments of the state have been redesigned for the new mandate. As Aisha Buhari’s brother eyes Bindow’s seat In Adamawa, Bindo to battle APC chieftains for re-election Confusion mars Adamawa APC primaries