The two leading political parties in Gombe State have inaugurated their campaign council paving way for intense electioneering in the state. While the PDP’s is being headed by a former governorship aspirant, Alhaji bala Bello Tinka, that of the APC is headed by a former Commissioner for Justice, Barrister Zubairu Abubakar. Inaugurating the council, Gov Ibrahim Dankwambo urged the members of the campaign council and other party members to ensure the success of the PDP candidates in all positions being contested both at state and national levels. The governor tasked the campaign team to be dedicated and deliver on its only term of reference, “which is ultimate victory for the PDP from the presidency to state assembly seat”. In his acceptance speech, the Director General, Bala Tinka, said they strive to  carry each and every member of the party to ensure the success of all PDP candidates. “We will reach out to everybody, including Okada riders and Keke Napep operators, to ensure that our house is intact and that there is continuity in Gombe Government House come May 29, 2019,” he said. In his remark, the gubernatorial candidate, Senator Usman Bayero Nafada, said the 2019 governorship election said the contest would enable him to correct the mistake he had made of bringing APC to the state. “I brought APC to Gombe state in 2015 and today I am contesting against the party because the party lacks the capacity to impact and bring development to our people,” he said. Inaugurating the APC 100-member campaign council, a former governor of the state and leader of the party, Senator Danjuma Goje urged the members to work tirelessly to ensure APC formed government in the state. Goje also called on other members of the party to give all the  support to the campaign council to ensure they succeed in getting the candidate elected as the governor. In his remark, the gubernatorial candidate, Alhaji Muhammad Inuwa Yahaya, pledged to carry everybody along when elected. “I promised to govern with justice and fairness if you give me the mandate to be your governor. We will work to restore the lost glory of our dear state which was ruined by the PDP administration in the last seven years,” he said. The director general of the campaign council, Barrister Umar promised to deliver the state to the APC and called on other members of the council to give him all the necessary support to succeed in the task ahead. “I and other members of the gubernatorial campaign council will work day and night to make sure that the APC form the next government in Gombe State,” he said. 2019: Why we must rid the Augean stable of filth APC, PDP in fight to finish over Ekiti Coalition wants youth as Gombe gov