Suspected armed bandits Saturday killed at least 17 people in an attack on Magami community in Faru District Maradun Local Government Area of Zamfara State, Daily Trust gathered yesterday. Armed bandits have intensified attacks on rural communities in the state in recent times with more than 50 persons killed within this month alone. Last Wednesday, 25 people were reportedly killed in attacks on two villages by suspected armed bandits and cattle rustlers in Birnin Magaji Local Government Area of the state. Residents told Daily Trust that dozens of armed men arrived at Magami community on Saturday firing at them indiscriminately. “They were chasing and shooting people dead on motorbikes, I saw them approaching and I tried to alert the other residents. Some were able to escape the carnage, but others were unfortunate and got trapped and killed,” Ali Hassan, a resident, said. The spokesman of the state police command, SP Muhammad Shehu, confirmed the incident. He said the Commissioner of  Police, Usman Belel, had deployed additional one unit of tactical teams comprising PMF/CTU/FSARS to Magami village to complement the efforts of police teams and other sister security services. He said the police boss alongside, the acting governor of the state and heads of other security agencies were at the scene of the incident in the early hours of yesterday for on-the-spot assessment with a view to putting in more proactive security measures that would bring lasting solutions to the security challenges in the area and other parts of the state. “The unit of the PMF/CTU personnel has already arrived the village and they were directed to operate in collaboration with the military and other security  personnel to restore normalcy and forestall any security threat by any disgruntled person or group of persons” “While the command condoles the government and people of Zamfara State over the unfortunate incident, it has also vowed to  arrest and bring to justice  the perpetrators of this dastardly act” “The command in this regard appeals for continued collaboration with all the security Agencies in the state to bring lasting peace  in the community  and security to Zamfara State,” Shehu said. Bandits kill 17 in Zamfara Bandits kill 8 in  Zamfara attack 30 killed, 7 missing in fresh  Zamfara attacks