The Kaduna Electricity Distribution Company will be more aggressive in its drive to recover all outstanding electricity bills next year in order to bridge the current revenue deficit suffered by the Company. A statement signed by the Head Corporate Communications of the Company, Abdulazeez Abdullahi, disclosed that the Managing Director/CEO of Kaduna Electric, Engr. Garba Haruna, made the assertion in Kaduna last night during the 2018 Rewards and Recognition ceremony organized in honour of deserving employees of the Company who excelled during the year. Engr. Haruna who lamented the huge revenue deficit currently being experienced by the Company which stood at over N2b every month, charged the workers to “fire the revenue drive from all cylinders” in the coming year. “The Company is taking energy worth about N4b every month from the national grid and only about N1.7b is being realized monthly; in 2019, we should fire our revenue drive from all cylinders; we should at least attain 80% billing and collection efficiencies; our monthly target should not be anything less than N3.6b if we are to meet our obligations to the electricity market,” he said. The electricity boss also directed the departments concerned to focus on identifying all unregistered electricity consumers in the Company’s franchise and ensure that all unregistered electricity users are captured in the billing programme accordingly and the revenue collected. He also charged the staff of the Electricity Distribution Company to work as a team and key into the current ICT revolution, stating that the Company has developed some value addition applications that will inject more efficiency in work processes and service delivery, but are not being optimally utilized by some personnel. This year’s annual award ceremony saw about 100 employees receiving the prestigious MD’s Award of Excellence and another 100 received the Shinning Stars Awards. The Makera Regional Office in Kaduna State emerged the overall Best Regional Office. Kaduna Electric to supply power to KRPC DisCos want GenCos’ capacity charges erased from energy invoices Kaduna Electric: Charting a new course in CSR