The Centre for Social Justice (CSJ) has urged the Federal Government to address the status of the N203.38bn recovered loot and the Medium Term Expenditure Frameworks (MTEF) in the 2019 budget proposal presented by President Muhammadu Buhari to the joint session of the National  Assembly. The Lead Director of CSJ, Eze Onyekpere, made the call in his preliminary review of the 2019 Federal Appropriation Bill. “The fact is that there is no approved Medium Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF) 2019-2021 as stated in Section 18 of the FRA Framework. Thus, strictly speaking in law, there cannot be an executive budget submitted for legislative approval without the approval of the MTEF. Illegality may have occurred in the preparation and presentation of the budget. “The filibustering involved in the attempt to set up a “High Powered Technical Committee” to advise on ways of funding the new minimum wage agreed with labour; this may lead the organised labour to start a strike that will paralyze the country. “It is not clear whether the N203.38bn recovered loot is already in the bag or being expected. This should be clarified by the fiscal authorities. If it is an expected sum, then it should not be made a revenue source as there is no certainty that it will be realized. It should only be appropriated when it has already been realized through a supplementary appropriation,” he said. While also listing that the Federal Government has been silent on the trillions of Naira accruing to it as stamp duties over the years, Onyekpere said “Nigerians suffer deductions from their bank accounts and the money seems to have been lost in a black hole as no one accounts for it.” “At a time of poor revenues, the country can ill afford this humungous waste,” he said. According to him, the  N2.031trn capital expenditure, which is 23 percent of the budget, is not good enough as previous experience indicates that the capital vote is very poorly implemented. “For instance, out of the 2018 capital vote of about N2.87trn, only N820.57bn had been released as at 14th December 2018. The president was however silent on how much was cash backed as at that date. It is therefore not sufficient to make proposals which may not be followed through at the end of the day. “It is also imperative for the administration to ensure that the bulk of the capital expenditure is developmental rather than administrative. This is the only way it can have a direct impact on the majority of citizens,” he stated. Budget: CSJ tasks FG on MTEF, N203.38bn recovered loot Why we rejected Buhari’s MTEF — Senate FG: N565bn recovered loot forms part of 2017 budget