Smallholder women farmers under the auspices of Kogi Women in Agriculture Cooperatives Federation (WAIF) have called on the state and federal governments to ensure adequate security and enabling environment for women farmers across the state. National President of WAIF, Comrade Esther Audu made the call in Lokoja during an event held by the group to showcase the various agricultural commodities being produced by women farmers across the 21 LGAs of the state. She said women farmers were critical to the actualisation of the vision 2030 target for zero hunger, hence, the need to be given the necessary support and enabling environment. “We want government to provide enabling environment for women farmers. We want government to provide security for our farmers. You will discover that our women will go to their farms and these herdsmen will come and rape them. “That must be done if we must achieve the 2030 target of zero hunger. Government should make available loans with low interest rates and all bottlenecks in accessing such loans should be removed”, she said. She identified lack of access to funds, technology in farming, improved seeds and markets as some of the major challenges facing women farmers in the state. According to her, the women farmers cooperative federation is currently promoting the production of 18 agricultural commodities amongst its members in the state. The commodities include rice, maize, cassava, soya bean, beniseed, poultry, fishery, bee keeping, ginger, tomatoes, vegetable, yam and cashew nuts. “We want to show the world that women are really into agriculture. Over 75 per cent of farming activities are being carried out by women. “We are here today from the 21 local government areas to showcase all the products we are farming, processing and packaging”, she said. On the well-being of farmers, she said the cooperative federation was working out health insurance and pension schemes for farmers in affiliation with Africunia Bank. Group empowers Ogun women on dry season farming Kogi women farmers demand ownership, control of land How late distribution of inputs affects farming in Nigeria