Abdulmumin Jibrin, chairman, House of Representatives Committee on Land Transport has tasked the Federal Government to train more transport professionals even as he said the transportation sector will experience more growth with the emergence of professionals. Jibrin stated in Abuja during the oversight visit of the House Committee to the Nigerian Institute of Transport Technology (NITT) Zonal Outreach Learning Centre in Abuja. He said the opening of NITT learning centres across the six geo-political zones would bring in more professionals and competent people that will contribute to the growth of the transport sector of the economy. “Transport is at the heart of logistics; you cannot talk about the economy without transport,” he said, adding that for “every aspect of the economy, transport is the foundation,” he added. “Again, we have limited knowledge because essentially we just look at it like commerce so we need deeper knowledge of the technologies,” he also stated. He said the “modules, the operations, the technical aspects and lots of other issues that are related. “I believe that having these centres now opened we would be able to bring more professionals and competent people that are going to contribute to the transport sector of the economy.’’ Also speaking, Dr Abimbola  Odumosu, Director General, NITT, said the visit of the  committee members demonstrated the commitment of the legislators  to the development of the transport sector. Odumosu said NITT has contributed significantly towards addressing the problems confronting the transport sector by providing the required training and professional manpower to run the industry He explained that the main campus of the institute is in Zaria with outreach learning centres across the six geo-political zones to enable every Nigerian have access to learning. “We are a training institution and our main focus is training on knowledge, skill and competence in transportation and logistics,” noting that “when government found out that there was a gap in the expertise in transportation and logistics, that was what necessitated the establishment of the NITT. “As a research institute, we still do sustainable research. The last one we did under the Federal Ministry of Transportation was on ‘National Transport Survey Projections’. We have another sustainable research we are doing now on, ‘How to use Railway and Logistics as a Tool for Poverty Reduction and Employment Generation’, he explained.  NITT takes learning centres to grassroots ‘Failure, poor  transport industry hinder progress’ Road mishaps: 2,000 die annually in Abuja, 2 other cities