Imo state governor, Rochas Okorocha, has handed over 100 Sienna vehicles to the state Commissioner of Police, Mr. Dasuki Galadanchi, for the use of the police command. The vehicles, which were equipped with sophisticated security gadgets, were handed over to the CP at the Government House, Owerri on Tuesday. Speaking at the ceremony, Okorocha said he has provided the vehicles for the safety of lives and properties of the citizens both in the urban and rural areas during the yuletide and beyond. The governor said, “As you are aware, Christmas in this part of the world attracts a lot of activities and men of the underworld take advantage of the Christmas to commit some havoc and criminal activities. “It is to ensure that everyone has a safe and peaceful Christmas and also for the overall security that we have donated 100 of these special vehicles to the Nigeria Police Force (NPF). The vehicles are equipped with radio and all that is required to check crime. “I am particularly happy with the Nigeria Police Force in Imo State and by this extent, my special greetings to the Inspector-General of Police for the good job he is doing in checking crime in our society. “With this, the Police is fully mobilized and equipped to position themselves in different parts of the state to check crime. “Our challenge with the security situation in Imo State is the visibility of the police and since we cannot have DPO offices in every village, these vehicles will serve as mobile divisional offices. “I equally thank the Commissioner of Police for fishing out some criminals recently in the State and those people shall face the wrath of the law. “I am equally making available N100,000 each for the 100 vehicles for fuel purposes.” Receiving the vehicles, the CP, Mr. Galadanchi said “these vehicles came as a result of a strategy that is adopted in Imo State; that is community policing. “Part of that strategy entails high visibility policy and myself and my team did what is called crime pattern analysis of the state. “After a careful study, I met with His Excellency and identified the crime areas and spoke with him on the need for about 77 cars to tackle the flash points; instead of him to argue, he even added more vehicles to make it 100 vehicles”. The CP assured the good people of the tate that the vehicles will be used judiciously for the safety and security of Imo residents, adding that all the 27 LGAs of the state are beneficiaries of the vehicles as each Divisional Police Officer (DPO) will have one alongside tactical commanders too. Sanusi holds court at Govt House Imo  police  parade 9 kidnap suspects Okorocha wants to kill me, Uzodinma cries out