Three business moguls took centre stage to discuss enterprise with young people eager to improve their standards of living at the Forever Youth Summit in Lagos. Coscharis Group founder, Cosmas Maduka, told the gathering of young people to get value. “I love to go where people add value to my life,” he said of his person and narrated how the Coscharis brand has grown into a conglomerate with interests in manufacturing, ICT, petro-chemicals, automobiles. Maduka withdrew from school at age seven, three years after his father died. “I hawked ‘akara’ to contribute to the upkeep of my family”, he revealed. He later moved to Lagos and was apprenticed in an auto shop to an uncle who lived in Ebute-Metta and was later set up with N200, which he would later parlay into the Coscharis fortune. “After several setbacks, my breakthrough came in 1982 when the Nigerian government decided to grant import licenses to ten motor companies and Coscharis Motors was selected,” he recounted. Coscharis owns sole franchise of renowned automobile brands in Nigeria, from BMW and Rolls Royce to Jaguar and Land Rover. “If anybody had reason not to succeed, the person is me.” Tony Attah, managing director of Nigeria Liquefied Gas, took a different tack to life and wealth after an aptitude test in Yamoussoukro. “I was part of a 900-youth group who were drilled on how they viewed life and wealth. We were asked to privately indicate what each could do with a free hundred million dollars,” he recalled. “While some Africans desired a bigger house, cars, some suggesting new wives, candidates from advanced societies had different perspectives.” Attah recalled a 19-year-old in the group wanting to use his imaginary millions to eradicate malaria in Sudan and Ethiopia, another wanting to eradicate poverty in Africa. Attah said the responses changed the way he viewed life. “It is important that you live for something bigger than yourself. Who will miss you when you are no longer here?” he asked a now subdued audience. The four-day summit’s focus on wealth creation comes amidst concern about a report by the National Bureau of Statistics indicating as much as 47 in 100 Nigerian youth are unemployed or underemployed. “The objective of our summit is to create healthier and higher quality of life for our Nigerian youths,” said Daniel Ikechukwu, country sales manager for Forever Living Products Nigeria. “Our youth must take charge of their lives and be involved in actions that will consciously transform their beliefs, values, attitude and finances.” Coscharis launches state of the art centre ...Coscharis chairman in fresh outburst ‘Oduagate’ gets messier...Customs says N255m cars for Lagos govt