A 42-year-old nanny, Mrs Idiat Owonikoko, has approached an Agege customary court, Lagos, to dissolve her marriage to her husband, Suleiman Owonikoko, alleging assault and lack of love. The petitioner, a mother of three, who resides at the Anuoluwapo area of Iyana-Oworo, Lagos, prayed the court to dissolve the 16-year-old marriage also on allegation of threat to her life. “l have suffered so much loss due to constant beating by my husband,” she said. Owonikoko claimed that when the beating became unbearable for her, she had to move out of the matrimonial home. “My husband is irresponsible and lazy. Since he lost his job 10 years ago, l have been responsible for our rent and all other expenses. “Whenever I asked him for feeding allowance, it would lead to serious arguments between the two of us. Last year, during the Ramadan fast, my husband beat me up so much that l was hospitalised. “My children are not spared his wicked act. Sometime in November 2017, he threatened one of them with a kitchen knife. I had to report him at the Ifako police station to restrain him from beating and threatening my children,” Idiat said. The petitioner told the court that she had to move to her sister’s home to be able to remain alive, as she described her husband as “an aggressive and violent man.” She prayed the court to give her custody of their children and award her other consequential orders as the court may deem fit. Owonikoko, 47, however, denied ever raising his hands against his wife. “I still love my wife and do not want to divorce her,” he pleaded. He said that his daughter once slapped him because he admonished her to be of good behaviour. He affirmed that his wife had been responsible for the children’s education since he lost his job. “I don’t beat my wife as she claimed. Rather, she is the one that no longer obey my orders because l am jobless. I told her that we should be living together as a family but she refused and moved into her boss’ house and only comes home on weekends, which led to a serious disagreement between us,” he said. The president of the court, Mrs Patricia Adeyanju, told the couple to remain at peace, and adjourned the case till February 5, 2019 for a possible alternative dispute resolution.  4-yr-old marriage heads for the rocks Pastor seeks dissolution of 32-year-old marriage over constant beating from wife ‘I pay the house rent yet he beats me, disrespects my family’