The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organization (PPCO) has alleged that the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) and the Muhammadu Buhari Presidency were planning to rig the 2019 general elections by creating illegal polling centres in Chad and Niger Republic. The Director Media and Publicity of the PPCO, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, in a statement on Thursday said the “plot” to secretly create polling centres outside the shores of Nigeria was in total violation of the 1999 Constitution. “President Buhari, INEC and all Nigerians know that there are no provisions for Diaspora voting under our system. By the extant laws guiding elections in Nigeria, it is very clear who is eligible to vote, as well as the centres statutorily designated for elections. There is no provision for any special arrangement whatsoever. “It is therefore reprehensible that President Buhari, in his desperation to rig the elections, is now trying to hide under the guise of making special provision for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) outside the country, to illegally create rigging centres outside our country and import contrived figures into the election results. “This clandestine arrangement further validates the alarm earlier raised by the PDP, in April this year, of INEC’s plot to secretly create 30,000 illegal polling centres in some remote areas, through which they plan to allocate millions of votes to President Buhari and the APC. “Nigerians can now see that the APC and its candidate are not committed to peaceful, credible, free and fair election. Having realized that there is no way he can win in a peaceful and credible election, Mr. President is now seeking means to enmesh the 2019 elections in constitutional crisis, public confusion and trigger an imminent violence that is capable of derailing our entire democratic process. “Moreover, by seeking to open polling units outside the country, the Buhari administration has now agreed that it does not have full control of Nigerian territory and cannot provide security for Nigerians to freely participate in the elections. “Finally, the PPCO cautions the Buhari Presidency and INEC Chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, not to set our country on fire by engaging in provocative actions in a desperation to rig the 2019 Presidential election for President Buhari,” the party said. INEC adopts card readers, rules out electronic results transmission 2015 Elections: The Forces Against Jega PDP knocks INEC for banning smart phones in polling units