The Assistant Inspector-General of Police, Zone 5, Benin, Alkali Baba Usman, has ordered the Commissioners of Police in Edo, Delta and Bayelsa States to beef up security in their respective commands during the Christmas  and New Year celebrations. A statement yesterday by the public relations officers  of the zone, Emeka Ihenacho, urged the Commissioners of Police to ensure adequate security of life and property through robust and proactive crime prevention strategies to cover all the linking roads, recreation centres, worship centres, critical infrastructures and other vulnerable and flash points in their respective commands. He said there should be high visibility policing along the major highways, city centres and other flash points. He directed them to identify all strategic and vulnerable points and ensure massive deployment of personnel to the areas. He also directed that the ban on roadblock by the Inspector General of Police should be enforced by the commissioners in their respective commands. He charged officers and men to be professional in the discharge of their duties and avoid any acts that could tarnish the image of the Force. “Also, you should ensure proactive crime prevention strategies that will enhance a security of lives and property of political parties and their candidates during the forthcoming 2019 general elections in your commands,” the AIG said. He also appealed to politicians and other stakeholders to cooperate with the police and other security agencies to ensure a hitch-free election in the zone. In the same vein, the Plateau State Police Command says it has put in place comprehensive security strategies to prevent crime before, during and after the Christmas season. It said a total of 2,046 police personnel have been deployed to protect lives and property. The spokesman of the command, Tyopey Terna, in a statement yesterday, said the command was working with other security agencies to ensure a crime-free yuletide season. Similarly, the state commandant of the Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, Solomon Adebayo Olasupo,  said his command had deployed 2,000 officers to beef up security across the state. Police beef up security in Edo, Bayelsa, Delta Police set to combat kidnapping in Edo, Delta, Bayelsa states 57th Anniversary: IGP Orders Massive Deployment of Policemen