Governor of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) Godwin Emefiele has said the proposed National Micro Finance Bank will address concerns around the several intervention funds that are lying idle in its vaults. Emefiele stated this at the post press briefing at the end of the 10th annual Bankers’ Committee retreat, yesterday, in Lagos. The Bankers’ Committee’s annual retreat tries to articulate how to open up lending to critical sectors of the economy that can serve as catalyst for economic growth, with the theme for this year being ‘Export-led Transformation of the Economy – Engine for Sustainable Inclusive Growth’. Emefiele had said, at the opening of the retreat, that a national MFB slated for launch in January would leverage on the existing NIPOST presence in 774 local government areas of the country and aid the CBN and the bankers’ committee’s effort in accessing the Anchor borrowers’ fund, SME fund and other initiatives tailored towards SMEs, farmers and the CBN’s financial inclusion drive. The CBN governor said the issues bordering on access to credit are bottlenecks that must be addressed in order to create the much needed jobs that the country needs. He said: “We have the N210 billion SMEs fund and the N60 billion Agric SMEs fund which will be N90 billion by year end. “But even we the bankers have complained that not all of those funds have been disbursed and sometimes, I feel embarrassed when people say, how come we have not heard about it, or we have not accessed it.” He said the CBN, under the auspices of the Bankers Committee, and the National Postal Service, decided to create its own independent channel where these funds can be accessed very quickly. The apex bank governor also disclosed plans by the committee to streamline issues of access to credit by youth who operate in the creative industry and ICT that would allow easy access to loans. He said: “We resolved that we need to set up a committee headed by a bank CEO and what they would do is to look at the issues hindering export and report back by February 2019, and through that the bank will commit to ensure we deploy funds or some of our intervention to support those initiatives.” Speaking on the Apapa gridlock and the difficulties encountered by exporters, Emefiele said government has taken bold steps to address the Apapa traffic issue and that there are some innovative arrangements currently on that help in transporting goods in batches from areas like FESTAC and Mile 2 into Apapa. He expressed optimism that once work on the road is completed, the burden on exporters will be greatly reduced. CBN threatens to  withhold CRR from commercial banks CBN challenges banks on innovative solutions for MSMEs growth CBN, other banks to float N30bn AGSME fund