The Chairman of the Senate Committee on Petroleum (Downstream), Senator Kabiru Garba Marafa (APC, Zamfara), has after a meeting with President Muhammadu Buhari, said the logjam in Zamfara APC gubernatorial candidacy will soon be resolved. The APC in Zamfara has failed to meet up with the deadline fixed by INEC for the submission of lists of candidates for governorship, national and state assemblies for next year’s general elections following the crisis that rocked the primaries in the state. Briefing State House correspondents at the end of the meeting at the weekend, Marafa said he met the president over the delay in the payment of arrears of petroleum subsidy being owed oil marketers, insecurity in Zamfara State and the APC logjam in the state. “I met the president for two reasons. One, is regarding the committee of downstream which I’m chairing in the Senate. There has been some disquiet in the industry regarding marketers’ payments with the Ministry of Finance, Debt Management Office (DMO) and the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) which we feel if not carefully handled, some enemies of the administration might bring about technical issues that will lead to queues in our filling stations,” he said. He said though the Federal Government has provided enough quantity of petroleum products everywhere in the country that can last for up to six months through NNPC, there seemed to be a plot to sabotage the government’s efforts. “The second issue is the political situation in my state, Zamfara. I came to also tap from his experience on governance and conflict resolution. We had a very good time and I got enormous advice on the way forward,” he said. Asked what exactly he discussed with the president on the Zamfara political situation, he said:  “That is for me and him; it is not for me and you. The most important thing is for me to know what to do and we are doing it.  When he tells me something that concerns you, I will tell you.” On whether the Zamfara APC candidates’ logjam has been resolved, he said: “No, we are still on it. We are in court and hopefully, we believe in the next couple of weeks, the court will provide a way forward. “We all know what happened and we all know what there is but it would be prejudicial to start discussing the issue on the pages of newspapers. Like I said, the issues are in court, various courts, but we are on our way to an amicable resolution of the problems,” Marafa said. Yarima, Marafa meet Buhari over Zamfara APC primary Marafa meets Buhari, says we'll retire Yari Gov Yari not from Zamfara — Sen Marafa