A former President, Olusegun Obasanjo, yesterday, said only a fool will maintain neutrality when Nigeria is being destroyed with “incompetence, corruption, brazen impunity and denial of the obvious.” Obasanjo was reacting to a statement that he had maintained neutrality ahead of the elections as reported by a news medium (not Daily Trust) with the headline: “Atiku: Obasanjo Shifts Political Gear to Neutral.” The former president reportedly spoke at the 27th annual Owu National Convention held in Iwo, Osun State. In a statement made available to our correspondent on Sunday in Abeokuta, Ogun State, by his Media Aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, Obasanjo recalled that he would not impress any candidate on Nigerians, but that rather they should “vote for credible candidates who will drive growth and development and make their lives better than it is now.” He insisted that he would not sit on the fence when he needed to be out and active for people to know where he stood in the best interest of Nigeria.” Daily Trust recalls that Obasanjo had endorsed the PDP presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar, who according to him, would perform better than President Muhammadu Buhari. Obasanjo urged Nigerians to be active and not just complain and be complacent as they allowed themselves to be deceived by “sycophants and enemies of Nigeria.” The statement read “It is disingenuous, if not malicious, for anyone to suggest that Chief Obasanjo was being neutral when he chose not to use the Owu convention as a platform for political campaign but instead adopted a communal and familial approach in talking to members of his Owu family. “For the records, and as accurately reported by some media organisations, what the former president said at the convention in Iwo was that while he would not impress any candidate on them, Nigerians should vote for credible candidates who would drive growth and development and make their life better than it is now. “Chief Obasanjo’s statement did not suggest his neutrality. In fact, the former president believes that only a fool will sit on the fence or be neutral when his or her country is being destroyed with incompetence, corruption, lack of focus, insecurity, nepotism, brazen impunity and denial of the obvious. Chief Obasanjo is no such fool, nor is he so unwise.”