The Borno State All Progressives Congress (APC) has warned those it describes as ‘Abuja politicians’ planning to hold a presidential campaign rally for President Muhammadu Buhari in the state without its approval to steer clear to avoid violence. “I heard some mischievous Abuja politicians calling themselves Borno indigenes planning to come to Borno to launch the presidential campaign for Buhari without our knowledge and approval,” the state APC chairman, Ali Bukar Dalori, told newsmen yesterday in Maiduguri. “We don’t know them; they are not our card-carrying members; they cannot, therefore, do anything in the name of APC; we are the APC, and we do not approve of what they are coming to do,” Dalori, who is the  vice chairman of  Forum of APC Chairmen, warned. “They should steer clear of Borno; but if they insist on doing what they plan, then we have prepared to deal with them in whatever way,” he added. Dalori, who would not mention names, claimed: “They went to PDP and destroyed it; and now they say they are in APC; but they should know that they can’t destroy APC; we will not take it; the national secretariat of our party should know that we in Borno are not rubber stamps.” Recall Daily Trust has reported that former Governor Ali Modu Sheriff was the leader of those who dumped the APC and joined PDP which he led at a time. He, alongside many of those that followed him to the PDP in Borno, have since returned to APC; but it was not clear if Dalori was referring to them. Dalori had earlier, yesterday, received the report of the 11-man Borno State Peace and Reconciliation Committee charged with settling grievances arising from the last APC primaries in the state. Submitting the report on behalf of the committee chairman, Adamu Shettima Dibal, the committee’s secretary, Barr. Kaka Shehu Lawan, said they invited 180 aggrieved aspirants comprising 4 governorship, 4 senatorial, 36 representatives and 136 state assembly membership aspirants during their sittings. He said 10 aspirants who dragged the party to court over the outcome of the primaries were not invited; but one of them withdrew his suit, leaving nine – six governorship, one senatorial and two state assembly aspirants. Barr. Lawan urged the party to look into the various grievances of the defeated aspirants as well as study the recommendations contained in the report with a view to implementing them for its victory in the 2019 general elections. He disclosed that two of the recommendations were that: Candidates and defeated aspirants should work in synergy for the party’s victory at the 2019 polls; and all aggrieved aspirants who dragged the party to court should withdraw their suits. Receiving the report, Dalori assured the committee that the party would implement the recommendations. Borno APC warns 'Abuja Politicians' against unapproved Buhari campaign Security not main reason of choosing indirect primaries in Borno - APC chair Polls: APC youths stage protest in Borno