The Federal Road Safety Corp (FRSC) has charged members of the Airports Car Hire Association of Nigeria (ACHAN) to be good ambassadors of Nigeria as they convey incoming passengers visiting the country during the yuletide to different locations across the country. It warned them to desist from acts capable of denting the image of the country before visitors as they usually have first contact with new entrants into the country. At an event to kick-off the ember months motor park rally for limousine drivers across Nigerian airports at the international wing of the Murtala Muhammad Airport, Unit Commander of RS2.110, Airport Command, Mr. Judge Daniel said they should refrain from taking substance which could push them to misbehave. He said the Corps would not hesitate to discipline any driver found to contravene safe driving regulations around the country’s airports. He urged the limousine operators to instil the culture of safe driving on its members, saying FRSC is ready to collaborate with them especially in the area of education. “You must continue to exhibit the traits of being Nigerian ambassadors as you convey visitors from the airports to their different destinations. The airports environment where you operate is the first point of call for anybody visiting the country during the yuletide. You are therefore expected to portray yourself as a positive image of the country. “The FRSC will not condone violation of it critical road offences rules and regulations such as no seatbelt, over speeding, the use of expired tyre among others”. Unit Coordinator, Unit 83, Airport Command, Special Marshal Nnamdi Asuoha said the sensitisation exercise was aimed at keeping the limousine operators abreast with current safety rules and regulations on Nigerian roads. Leader of the limousine operators and a member of the trustees, Chief Segun Shade said the association has ample respect for traffic rules and regulations. He also appealed to the FRSC to simplify the processes of acquiring the driver’s license. FRSC to acquire breathalyzers for testing drunk drivers FRSC AT 25:THE FLIP SIDE Passengers stranded as Lagos airport cabbies protest