Air Peace on Thursday said it would move a part of its flight operations to the Murtala Muhammed Airport 2 (MMA2), Lagos on January 2, 2019. This is to position itself for better service to its customers, it said. The airline, which has its main hub at the General Aviation Terminal (GAT) of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos, said it would now operate its Lagos-Akure, Lagos-Asaba, Lagos-Kaduna and Lagos-Port Harcourt NAF Base flights from the MMA2. In a statement by its Corporate Communications Manager, Mr. Chris Iwarah, the airline said the development was in line with its expansion plan and strategy to deliver a much better experience to members of the flying public using its services. The airline added that the expansion to MMA2 would address the space constraints it was facing at the General Aviation Terminal of the Murtala Muhammed Airport, Lagos. The arrangement, it said, also becomes imperative in view of the expected influx of passengers during the yuletide. According to the statement, other domestic flights out of Lagos will, however, operate from the GAT. “We are quite hopeful that the expansion of our Lagos base to MMA2 will afford us the space and convenience to deliver first-class flight experience to our loyal customers. “The extension of our operations could not have come at a better time than the Yuletide season. As is the experience around this time of the year, we anticipate a great leap in the demand for air travel. Already, we are creating more flights to cater to the expected rise in the demand for air travel this period. We have also launched a good number of routes in the last one year. “As a customer-oriented carrier, it is only strategic that we seek a better operational atmosphere for seamless passenger facilitation and exceptional customer service experience. This exactly is what MMA2 offers with its state-of-the-art facilities and we are indeed proud of our decision to annex it to our Lagos hub”. MMA2 blockade: Dana Air threatens to downsize, says it lost N100m Bi-Courtney asks FG to close old Lagos airport terminal Air Peace loses N60million as NLC, TUC disrupt flights operations