No fewer than 26 aggrieved aspirants vying for Ogun State House of Assembly seats have defected from the All Progressives Congress (APC) to the Allied Peoples Movement (APM). Dailytrust reports the aggrieved aspirants backed by Ogun State Governor, Ibikunle Amosun, had claimed that the mandate given to them during October 7 legislative primary of APC was stolen by the national leadership of APC. Amosun had specifically accused the National Chairman of APC, Adams Oshiomhole of “perpetrating another evil” in Ogun State barely few days after his “candidates” were not given Candidates Form (CF001) at the expiration of submission of candidate’s names to the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC). Speaking with newsmen on Monday in Abeokuta, the spokesman of aggrieved aspirants, Lamidi Olatunji said they “have come to inevitable conclusion to actualise their ambitions in APM.” Our correspondent reports that the aspirants would be joining Amosun’s anointed candidate, Adekunle Akinlade who had equally defected to APM last Thursday, having lost APC governorship ticket to Dapo Abiodun. Olatunji, however, pledged their support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s second term bid. He said “We also wish to acknowledge the fatherly role of President Muhammadu Buhari in seeking to sustain the tenets of democracy fairness and equity in the resolution of the crisis in Ogun APC. “We regret that Mr President’s efforts were frustrated by the forces that are hellbent in taking the Southwest back to the dark age of slavery where unelected kingpins direct the affairs of the people.” He directed their supporters and admirers to move into APM as “the new vehicle for the development of Ogun State.” Our correspondent reports that two serving Commissioners, Dayo Adeneye (Information and Strategy) and Modupe Mujota (Education, Science and Technology) were among the defectors. You have my blessing, Amosun tells Akinlade, other defectors Ogun: Respect our mandate, Amosun-backed candidates beg Oshiomhole I’m still in APC–Amosun