Uncontrolled tree felling by firewood fetchers that supplies cooking fuel to residents in Damaturu is increasingly threatening the survival of forest in the northern Yobe state. These wood sellers, not less then 30 of them, gather everyday with their carts, axes and water containers to board four-wheel vehicles along Gashua road, Damaturu, and head to where they degrade the forest for livelihood. Their activities, which have been going on for decades had destroyed vast area of land, despite government’s and communities’ efforts to arrest the situation. One of the firewood fetchers, Abu Haruna, who has two wives and six children said he has been in the business for over 10 years and his life depends on it. “It’s what I use to feed and solve my family problems. I have two wives, and all my six children are going to school. It’s a difficult job but I must thank God for the favor,” he said. Haruna said they usually group themselves to set out as early as 6:00am, pushing their carts to cut down trees in remote bushes and transport them to town for sale. He revealed that, on daily basis, they trek 25 to 30 kilometers off the tarred road before getting access to the trees. “Seven years back, we used to get the firewood around Gona Bukar (around 10km) or just few kilometer away but things have now changed, we trek the whole day searching for the wood”. He said the business was facing serious challenges as a result of scarcity of the trees and that it has became an alternative trade for many people who lost means of their livelihoods. Malam Adamu, another firewood fetcher, who spent almost 10 years in the occupation, said it has not been easy for them to trek the distance in order to get  firewood these days that was why they now arranged with truck drivers that convey them to fetch the wood on time. “We spent the whole day searching for the firewood before we came up with this idea. We do hire the four-wheel vehicles that take us deep inside the bush to get good wood and return home on time. If not, we will spend the night in the bush,” he explained. He said that all the nearby bushes had been depleted by the continuous felling of trees without replacement, while desert had taken over most of the farmlands and water points in that location. A driver, who conveys the firewood fetchers to the bush, Hassan Muhammad, said he charges N6000 to transport them about 30 kilometers into the bush. “They either pay us in cash or cut trees for me to sale. That’s what I now do for a living. The forest is now completely dead, we no longer have enough trees to cut. My fear is that soon the forest would be empty,” he added. The state government had in 2017 set up a 13-member committee to tackle incidences of deforestation, desertification and environmental degradation to mobilise local government areas and traditional rulers against illegal felling of trees. Also, the state government, through the Ministry of Environment had established woodlots and embarked on tree planting along the newly constructed 40 kilometers trans-sahara road to curtail deforestation and desertification in the state. The Commissioner for Environment, Jibrin Kortomi said the ministry has been planting and nurturing trees, and the forests would be left alone and duly preserved. Also, the emir of Tikau, Alhaji Muhammad  Abubakar Ibn Grema said during an interview with our correspondent that his emirate was holding an annual tree planting campaign to combat hazards of desert encroachment. He said that livelihood of almost 85 percent of the state’s population, who depend on subsistence farming, was being threatened by desert encroachment and draught. “That is why we initiated community base tree planting campaign within Tikau emirate and planted over 1.4 million trees. We also instituted annual tree competition among our districts to protect the environment” he said. He appealed to both state and federal government to provide people with an alternative cooking source so that trees in his domain and other parts of the state would be spared. Yobe’s IDPs struggle to live selling firewood The reign of tiny firewood pieces How Damaturu hosted Maiduguri’s ‘immigrants’