The Action Peoples Party (APP) and the Coalition of United Political Parties (CUPP) have dragged President Muhammadu Buhari and the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris, over the purported moves to extend the tenure of the IG. Also dragged to an Abuja High Court in suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/1570/2028 are the Nigeria Police Council (NPC) and Police Service Commission (PSC). The plaintiffs, in the suit filed on their behalf by Obed O. Agu, are seeking an interpretation of Section 215 (1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and the Public Service Rule 020810. They wanted the court to determine whether by the mandatory provision of the sections, an IGP shall only be appointed from among serving members of the police and whether any person or an officer who had attained 60 years or 35 years in service could not be deemed to be a serving member of the force. Addressing the press in Owerri, yesterday, over the alleged moves to extend the IGP’s tenure, First National spokesman of CUPP, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere and the APP chairman, Kenneth Udeze, said the IGP who would be 60 years on January 15, 2019 having been born on January 15, 1959, was not eligible for extension and that any attempts to do so would contravene relevant sections of the constitution. CUPP said that moves to extend Idris’ appointment after retirement was a last desperate effort by the All Progressives Congress (APC) to politicise the police force and thwart the electoral will of Nigerians. The coalition expressed fear that the fact that the IGP had not commenced necessary procedures prior to retirement had further confirmed their suspicion. The coalition accused some APC chieftains of being behind the plot to extend the IGP’s tenure, adding that the 2019 election was a straight contest between President Buhari and Atiku Abubakar, who is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)/Coalition candidate, which APC feared it could lose. While calling on the president to direct Idris to proceed on terminal leave and commence his mandatory one month pre-retirement workshop/training, APP and CUPP gave the respondents 30 days to reply to the summons. APP, CUPP drag Buhari, PSC to court over IGP's tenure Stories for pages 37 and 39 Lawyer tackles AGF over suit against Misau