The Buhari Campaign Organisation (BCO) wants the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to call PDP to order over alleged hate speech and campaign of calumny against President Muhammadu Buhari. The group described PDP’s statements on President Buhari’s position on the state of the country’s economy and his refusal to assent to the Electoral Act (Amendment) Bill 2018 as ridiculous and misleading. In a statement signed by its Director of Communications and Strategic Planning, Malam Gidado Ibrahim, BCO said the PDP had derailed from all norms that guide  political struggle, “leaving no one in doubt  about the antics of a drowning political party, whose plot to rig the 2019 general elections had been scuttled.” On President Buhari telling governors at the weekend that they should expect tough times ahead, BCO said rather than describing the president’s admittance to impending economic hardship as a sign of failure, the PDP ought to have praised the president for the courage to speak up when necessary. “The PDP is ill-prepared for the role of constructive opposition; if they don’t have anything to say or do, the PDP can as well go to the Sahara Desert to dig a well, rather than making hate speeches and throwing tantrums everywhere in the name of opposition. We urge the electoral umpire to call the PDP to order. “It is pathetic that the PDP prefers the president to lie to Nigerians about the state of the economy. What is wrong in admitting to where challenges exist? The PDP’s modus operandi for 16 years was to continue to mislead the people. We all know President Buhari very well; he won’t lie to Nigerians. Rather, he will tell them the truth, while working hard to fix the problem. “For the records, Nigerians elected and trusted President Buhari to tell them the truth at all times and he will not deviate from that. The problem that still bedevils the economy today is the fallout of PDP’s 16 years of irresponsible governance,” the statement said. On the amended electoral bill, BCO said Buhari was right to decline assent to the bill, insisting that the amended bill presented to the president was a landmine the PDP would have relied on to rig its way back to power in 2019. “A leopard can never change its skin. The PDP thought they are smart but the president and his party are smarter. No more will the PDP be allowed to execute its sinister motives. “They want to use the amended electoral bill to rig their way back to power again in 2019 so that they can continue to plunder the economy of this country. We say capital no,” the statement said.  Travel ban: BCO chides Buhari critics Buhari certificate saga:  Shift priority now, BCO tells PDP Atiku is easy ride for Buhari — BCO