The United States government has congratulated the presidential candidates for signing of a peace accord for the 2019 general elections, urging them to honour it faithfully. A statement from the U.S Embassy in Abuja described the Peace Accord as a great step towards the goal shared by all Nigerians of national elections that are credible. “The United States warmly congratulates the presidential candidates and parties who have signed the Peace Accord for the 2019 Presidential elections. We also congratulate all those advocates for Peace and Democracy who have worked together to achieve this important result. “Your Peace Accord is a great step towards the goal shared by all Nigerians of national elections that are free, fair, transparent, credible, and peaceful. “Achieving your goal is critical to the credibility and effectiveness of the next government, and it is essential to advance Nigeria’s unity, prosperity, justice, and security. “In 2015, an identically worded Peace Accord played a vital role in a democratic electoral process. We expect all parties and leaders to ensure that this new Accord will be honoured just as faithfully and therefore have an equally positive effect on the 2019 election. “We note that, for elections to be free and fair in 2019, the campaign period already underway must itself go forward on a level playing field and be a fair and transparent process. “Campaigns enriched by positive ideas and actions will unite Nigerians in a common democratic debate, even as they differ by advocating for competing candidates,” the statement read. U.S urged all candidates, party members, civil society groups and citizens to speak out for policies that advance the good of all Nigerians and speak out against violence, misinformation, and hate speech. The American government also reiterated its strong support for the Independent National Elections Commission (INEC), and for all those Nigerian citizens, public servants, and civil society organizations who will together facilitate peaceful, credible, and transparent elections. 2019: Buhari, others sign peace accord Atiku’s decision to sign peace deal face-saving move – APC Jonathan, Buhari  renew peace accord