Supporters loyal to the Senate president’s faction of the PDP in Kwara State and those loyal to the APC gubernatorial candidate, yesterday, disrupted the Ilorin Emirate Progressive Descendant Union (IEDPU) annual convention. The event which took place at the Emir of Ilorin’s forecourt was going on smoothly until the supporters of  Senate President Bukola Saraki started shouting ‘Sai leader,’ ‘Sai Saraki,’ ‘Sai Atunwa,’ while supporters  of the APC gubernatorial candidate, Abdulrahman Abdulrazaq popularly called Atunwa, also interrupted by  singing the slogan of their party, ‘Otooge,’ meaning “enough  is enough.” This happened when Atunwa was invited to the podium by the organisers to make his donation and launch the year almanac of the union before the whole venue became rowdy. The incident forced the Emir of Ilorin, Alh Ibrahim Sulu- Gambari to leave the venue of the event in anger. Atunwa was however shouted down by supporters of Saraki who were at the venue of the occasion. Some of Saraki’s supporters were heard saying nobody could intimidate the Senate president in Ilorin. All attempt by the organisers to restore normalcy so as to continue with the programme proved abortive. The IEDPU national executive council members led by  their president, Ambassador Sheikh- Usman Abdulaziz, later went into the palace to apologise to the Emir. The IEDPU’s calendar, a major source of revenue generation for the union could not be launched because of the unfortunate development. In a statement yesterday, the APC candidate described what transpired as disappointing, embarrassing and antithetical to good moral Ilorin is known for. “The development at  the IEDPU programme where touts and street urchins shouting ‘Sai Bukky’ disrupted a community event is disappointing, embarrassing and antithetical to good moral and ethics for which Ilorin community is known,” the statement signed by Alhaji Rafiu Ajakaye, said. “Apart from reminding everyone of the desperation for which the evil status quo in Kwara is known, the sad event clearly points at the extent to which the parasitic gangs will go in the coming months to continue to keep Kwara and its people down.” The Saraki camp of the PDP was yet to comment on the issue at the time of filing this report. Jubilation in Ilorin as supporters receive Saraki after Supreme Court judgment Kwara 2015: Will Ahmed get APC’s ticket? Certificate scandals threaten 2019 dreams