In line with the marching order by the Federal Government on timely delivery of the Lagos-Ibadan standard gauge rail line, the contractor handling the 156-kilometer project has sustained its night operations to meet up with January deadline for presidential train ride, Daily Trust has learnt. The China Civil Engineering and Construction Company (CCECC) has been under intense pressure from the Minister of Transportation, Mr. Rotimi Amaechi, to deliver the three- year project in less than two years. Daily Trust reports that it was in response to the Ministerial pressure and appeal that a test run ride on a rail car was carried out last week on a 32-kilometer stretch of the track within the Ogun axis. The ride, it would be recalled, took off from kilometer 43 around Ewekoro and ended at kilometer 71 which was six kilometers away from. Abeokuta, the Ogun state capital. The Government has assured that by January, the track would have been laid from Iju in Lagos to Abeokuta which would be test-run by the Vice-President, Prof. Yemi Osinbajo and some Ministers. Amaechi also last week hailed the performance of CCECC recalling a virgin land with water and hills has been turned to a gigantic construction site from Lagos to Ibadan. While work has advanced greatly in Ogun axis, that of Lagos to Apapa has been slowed down by encumbrances which solutions have been found to and being implemented while the Minister charged the contractor to deploy more equipment to Ibadan, Oyo state section. Checks by Daily Trust however showed that the contractor has been carrying out day and night operations between Iju, Agbado and Ijoko Railway corridor to meet up with the January deadline. A media consultant to the CCECC, Mr. Abdulraouf Akinwoye, said the night operation was to meet up with the demand of the Minister on the January 5 date of presidential train ride from Iju to Abeokuta. Osinbajo, Ministers to ride on Lagos-Ibadan train next month Lagos-Ibadan rail completion a tall dream Lagos-Ibadan rail: Contractor seeks extension of deadline