The federal government has commissioned the signage production plant of the Federal Road Safety Commission (FRSC) in Abuja. Speaking in Abuja during the occasion on Monday, Secretary to the Government of the Federation (SGF), Boss Mustapha, said the commissioning of the plant shows the federal government’s commitment to provide safe roads and prevent road crashes which has always lead to destruction of lives and properties as well decrease in the nation’s GDP. He said in the past, there were issues of inadequate, misleading and improper placement of road signs which lead to rise in road traffic crashes and violation hence the presence of the plant will help to produce much more road signs sufficient for the highways to aid road users. He warned that the federal government will no longer tolerate the vandalising of government’s road infrastructure and road signage. He therefore called on all law enforcement agencies to arrest and punish any perpetrator of such offences. Mustapha called on state governments to use only standard road signs and signals on their roads and to produce them from the newly commissioned FRSC’s signage production plant. He urged the FRSC to carry out monitoring and evaluation of the impact from time to time to guide government road transport policy and ensure that the nation do not derail from this task that it has set for itself. Also speaking, FRSC’s Corps Marshal, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, said the corps carried out a research on Nigerian highway signage and signals in 2014 and found that the nation’s highway were characterized by improper signs and signals confusing motorists than aiding them, vandalised and defaced signs and signals amongst others, hence the need to produce more signage and signals to aid the road users. The plant, according to him, has the capacity to meet the nation’s road needs. He said the plant has been able to produce 6,000 various road signs which are already installed on some segments of the federal highways and hopes to get them across the entire nation’s highways soon. Also, the chairman, FRSC Board of Trustees, Alhaji Bukhari Bello, warned that supporters of politicians and religious institutions should desist from pasting their posters on the faces of road signage as it misleads road users. FRSC AT 25:THE FLIP SIDE ‘Lack of road signs cause of accidents’ Three years of the road safety legend, Corps Marshal Boboye Oyeyemi