President Muhammadu Buhari has said that his second term bid is not a do or die affair, thus reiterating his previous pledge for a free, fair and credible polls. The president’s declaration comes 47 days to the forthcoming presidential elections in the country. In his New Year message, the President said: “Elections need not be do or die affair, and we should not approach that eventuality in a democracy with trepidation and mortal fear. “Happily, a large number of presidential candidates have committed to peace, and peace we shall have. “Those who continue to trumpet falsehood and negativity are on their own, fighting a lost battle. “The greater number of Nigerians are trusting and believing that we shall deliver on our promises for a level playing field at the polls, and that is what we shall do,” he said. He said Nigerians desire peace, security, prosperity, inclusiveness and infrastructural development, a nation they can be proud of, a country that can hold its own among the nations. “That is the journey we have embarked on since we came onboard in 2015, and we are not distracted as we move on. “We are resolved to build a country in which the resources are utilized for the benefit of the largest number, and not appropriated by a privileged few in their never ending quest to satisfy their greed. “We are on this mission together, and I assure you of a firm commitment to the ideals of a safe, secure, fair, just and prosperous country,” he said. Buhari said the country has had its challenges in the areas of security, economic, political, social, adding that they are resolved to combat and overcome them all. “I appreciate your support and collaboration in previous years, and look forward to same in 2019, and beyond, as I hope you will renew the mandate you overwhelmingly gave us in 2015, for another term. “We are motivated by nothing other than service to motherland, and service without selfishness or personal interest.  I can assure you all that we are making steady and sustainable progress in all areas of national life. Those who are unbiased can see and appreciate the progress the country has made since 2015. “A New Year provides opportunity for renewal of commitment, and I invite you to rededicate yourselves to the vision of a Nigeria that works for all. “We are moving from potentials to actualization, and it’s a task to be accomplished by us all; man, woman, young, old, military, civilian, all Nigerians. “Please come along, as we journey to the land of our dreams. Happy 2019!” he said. Buhari to Nigerians: Power hasn''t alienated me from your sufferings Buhari: We won’t accept another election shift 'PDP plots to blackmail Muslim clerics, community leaders over Buhari'