The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has called on President Muhammadu Buhari to resign over his confession to state governors on Friday that the economy is in a bad shape. Atiku, in a statement yesterday, by his Special Assistant on Public Communication, Phrank Shaibu, alleged that Buhari’s confession was a pathetic ploy to attract the sympathy of Nigerians “with his false honesty” and “a disguise to get a soft landing from the people he has put under terrible suffering and hardship in the last three and half years.” He said the president’s confession confirmed the forecast by the British multinational bank, HSBC, which predicted that re-electing him in 2019 could plunge Nigeria into deeper economic hardship. Atiku said the only way out for Nigerians was vote en masse for him as his policy document focused on, among other things, creating jobs, ensuring security and growing businesses as well as developing power and water infrastructure, agriculture and education. “The economy has collapsed under his watch and he has by his frank remarks admitted that he has no idea on how to fix it and that is why he summoned the governors to help him,” Atiku said. “This is really very sad because President Buhari has run out of time and what Nigerians need now is a leadership which has the political will, administrative experience and sound economic acumen to get Nigeria working again. “The most nauseating aspect of President Buhari’s confession of the failed economy is that he has continued to exhibit his cluelessness, incapacity and ineptitude in handling the economy by once again invoking the tired mantra of blaming the past administration and 16 years of PDP rule for his own failure. “Unless those in charge of the APC and the party’s supporters are, as usual, suffering from some form of self-delusion, it just does not make any sense for them to say that the APC-led federal government had brought succour to the ordinary Nigerian when President Muhammadu Buhari himself has admitted to governors of the 36 states of the federation that the economy has gone beyond his control. “The APC should apologize to all Nigerians for bringing them nothing but suffering of unquantifiable proportion since 2015, and to make a solemn pledge not to have anything to do with governance, especially with the 2019 elections fast approaching,” he added. Who said Atiku is a thief? — Oshiomhole Why I parted ways with Buhari - Atiku Only Atiku can challenge Buhari — Bako