The immediate past Special Assistant to the President on Justice Reform, and National Coordinator, Open Government Partnership (OGP), Mrs Juliet Ibekaku-Nwagwu, has urged members of the National Assembly to respect President Muhammadu Buhari, at least for his age. The Media Adviser to Mrs Ibekaku-Nwagwu, Chief Dennis Aghanya, said Sunday in a statement that she condemned the unruly attitude of some members of the National Assembly during Mr. President’s Budget presentation, saying such is unbefitting of persons of presumably distinguished personalities. Mrs. Ibekaku-Nwagwu, who is also the Enugu West Senatorial candidate for the APC, stressed the need for electorates to examine the character of persons they intend to elect into various positions, especially the National Assembly at the forthcoming 2019 General Elections. “Considering the age of Mr. President, one expected some level of respect for him, notwithstanding his political affiliation. I was touched when he kept reminding the Assembly members that the world was watching them over their unruly behavior, but they didn’t blink. What I expected the opposition parties to do was to articulate their disagreements on paper and present it to Mr. President, rather than turn the chambers to a theater of comedy,” she said. She also thanked all the groups that adopted her, especially the Enugu West Concerned Citizens Forum (EWCCF) forum, the Women Wing of the Enugu State chapter of Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) among others for the trust reposed in her and promised to be of responsible character if she is elected into the senate. “All the groups should also give President Muhammadu Buhari the same support so that Enugu State would join the government at the center because the South East has unanimously vowed to vote for Mr. President come 2019”, she said. In a similar development, the entire Umumba comprising Umumba Ndi-Uno and Umumba Ndi-Agu, and the association of Igala Youths resident in Udi lga and 9th mile in particular also threw their weight behind the senatorial ambition of Barrister Ibekaku-Nwagwu. APC senatorial primary: Fr Mbaka can’t pray for stolen mandate, says VON DG China loans will help correct infrastructure deficits – presidential aide Enugu 2019: APC govt’ll ensure transparency – Buhari’s aide