Osun state governor, Mr. Gboyega Oyetola, will on Thursday presents his first budget for the 2019 fiscal year to the state House of Assembly in Osogbo. The Supervisor of the state Ministry of Information and Strategy, Mr Adelani Baderinwa, disclosed this in a press statement in Osogbo on Monday. According to him, the budget is largely hinged on consolidation of Social Security Protection and Welfare Programmes of the immediate past administration. “Basically, the budget will sustain and indeed aggressively increase the current pace of human capital and infrastructure development that Osun has attained. “It would be recalled that Osun was declared the lowest state in ‘Incidence of Poverty’ in Nigeria by the United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) in the report released by the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) in October this year. “A report which was largely attributed to heavy investment in human and infrastructure development in the state in last eight years. “Governor Oyetola’s administration will surely, through the budget, consolidate on the human capital development achievement to make life more meaningful and abundant for the people of the state. “The proposed 2019 budget will indicate a major shift in policy as it derived all its content from the State Development Plan 2018-2028 with its constituent references to the Medium Term Sector Strategies and Medium Term Expenditure Framework 2019-2021. “This is the first time in the history of the state that a budget will be structured to service the people directly and indirectly with massive infrastructure development, especially in education and health sectors. “Direct and indirect jobs will be created in the coming year with a view to continue ensuring that many more youths are taken off the street more aggressively much than it had been happening. “The 2019 budget is a ‘Policy Plan Budget’ that will ensure that every programme and project evolves from government policy as documented and or captured in the Medium and Long Term Plan of the state government,” the statement read. He said all political functionaries, local government chairmen and parliamentarians, top career officers, traditional rulers, civil society organisations and other stakeholders in the development of the state are expected at the budget presentation, which will commence by 11am on Thursday December 27, 2018. Don’t see 2019 elections as declaration of war, Buhari urges politicians Osun: Alh Isiaka sworn in as Governor Who becomes governor as Osun votes today?