About 10,000 youths who are skilled in computer and ICT but have no formal education certificates will start getting Federal Government-backed certification from 2019, the Administrator of Digital Bridge Institute (DBI), Dr. Ike Adinde, has said. Dr. Adinde, who disclosed this in an interview in Abuja, said these set of youths had the digital skills that the modern economy required and that they needed to be treated specially. He said many of those with formal certificates were not digitally productive, hence the need to certify those with requisite digital skills to enable them play in the digital economy. “We also recognise that there are other avenues by which skills can be built. So DBI is also taking the initiative to drive what is called National Occupational Skills System which will target vocational skills development in ICT. “A lot of computer villages that are scattered across the country; if you get into them you will find out that guys are doing stuff that they are doing not necessary because they have degree or certificate but because they have acquired skills. “So, increasingly, we want to focus on that area to ensure that these skills are also recognised and the government will begin to say that skills development is not about certificate, it is about what you can do. “Our ambition is to reach as many people as possible in the next one year hoping that we can do as many as 10,000 per year if the programme that we are unleashing works, so that way, all parts of the country will be called at.’’ He said many youths “are unemployed not because they don’t have education, but because they don’t have the requisite IT skill that the industries need, so we can distinguish between unemployment as a result of jobs not being available and unemployment as a result of not having the employable skills that the industries demand.”  DBI lists ways Nigeria can earn huge revenue via software export Institute calls for intervention in ICT to stimulate economic growth NCC boss wants right policies to fast track digital growth in Africa