The ruling All Progressives Congress, APC, says the Peoples Democratic Party, PDP had enlisted the services of some hackers from Russia in order to compromise the servers of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) in next February’s general elections. The APC Deputy National Publicity Secretary, Mr Yekini Nabena, said this yesterday in Abuja, while fielding questions from journalists. READ ALSO: Train your agents before elections, INEC tells political parties Nabena, who expressed worry that the PDP was now afraid of the current Electoral Act it certified good for 2015 general elections, added that they were complaining because the trap set in the 2018 Electoral Act Amendment Bill had been exposed. READ ALSO: 2019: I will tackle poverty headlong if elected president – Ezekwesili He said the current disposition of the PDP is a fallout of the various plans it hatched during their recent meeting in Dubai with their presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar. READ ALSO: FG, ASUU reach partial agreement “The Act we are using now was created by the PDP. They created a law and they are now afraid to use it. That does not sound right. What the PDP are doing, they are playing out what they designed in Dubai. They started with the labour strike on minimum wage in order to cause problems in the country but it did not work; they brought ASUU strike, it did not work and then they tried to instigate fuel scarcity which also did not work. READ ALSO: PDP BOT chairman urges NASS to override President on Electoral Act “These were all part of their grand design in Dubai and so the last bid is the Electoral Act. Look at the way they are going about it, saying if the president does not sign it, they will file on to the streets in demonstration. Look at them, at their age. But we are waiting for them. “Normally if you vote, the Electoral Officer is supposed to count the votes and announce them before transmitting to the collation centre. But now you are telling us that they do not need to announce the votes, that they should just transmit. That is all part of their Dubai plan, trying to bring in Russian agents to hack the system. That is their joker. To hack into the system and manipulate the figures before transmitting them,” he said.