The Federal Government and Microsoft have met to discuss digital transformation in the country’s governance process. The discussion which held in Abuja Wednesday had officials of FG’s IT agencies and top management staff of Microsoft in attendance. How fast Nigeria should adopt new technologies, such as cloud computing, artificial intelligence (AI) and the internet of things in governance topped discussions at the meeting. Microsoft officials told FG team and other participants that the new technologies would create a promising new opportunity for governments to enhance the way they interact with citizens. ‘’At the same time, there is a responsibility to ensure security, compliance and data privacy in every digital interaction’’, Salwa Smaoui, Public Sector Government Leader – Microsoft Middle East & Africa told journalists on sideline after the meeting tagged Reimagine the future of Nigeria. “Success in an increasingly digital future depends on how well governments use technology to transform, create new value and positive business outcomes, and deliver new and improved citizen services at scale,” added  Smaoui. She said “Today’s rising millennial population expect more streamlined and personalised services, and government services are no exception.” The meeting came as a natural progression in Microsoft’s ongoing efforts to bring about digital transformation across societies and industries. In 2017, the organisation partnered with Strathmore University in Kenya, opening a Policy Innovation Centre with aim of providing a platform that facilitates digital change in areas such as government and the likes. “A digitally transformed government will improve the ease of doing business for small businesses, foreign direct investment, and two-way communications with citizens,” Salwa said. She added:  “We hope to empower officials with the information, tools and resources that enable them to do more and achieve more for the citizens they serve.” Daily Trust reports that Microso introduced Microsoft industry solutions for government and explored some of its available technologies, such as Azure and Microsoft AI.