Since arrival and commencement of production in deep-water exploration 13 years ago, the Bonga vessel of Shell Nigeria Exploration and Production Company (SNEPCo) has produced over 800 million barrels of crude oil. In its review of the performance of the Bonga Floating Production, Storage, and Offloading (FPSO) vessel for 2018, SNEPCo’s Managing Director, Bayo Ojulari, expressed satisfaction with the consistent availability and optimal performance of the vessel which began operation at the Bonga field in Oil Mining Lease (OML) 118 in 2005 under a production sharing contract with the Nigeria National Petroleum Corporation (NNPC). “We are relentless in our pursuit of excellence on all fronts, and this we have consistently demonstrated with the management of Bonga to the satisfaction of our government and co-venture partners. “We leverage the Shell group’s global expertise in technology and new advancements in the industry to continue to unlock Bonga’s huge potential. One such example was the completion and inauguration of the Bonga North West Cross Over module in 2014, a first in the history of Shell which launched the beginning of a new phase delivering the reservoirs proven volumes and maintaining production of the FPSO at full capacity,” the SNEPCo MD added. According to Ojulari, SNEPCo, with the support of NNPC and the co-venture partners – Total E&P, Nigerian Agip Oil Company and ExxonMobil – has also done so much for Nigeria and Nigerians in its years of operations in revenue and taxes accruable to the government, and social investments in education, sports and health across the country. In the last three years, he said SNEPCo has spent over $9 million in scholarships and other interventions in schools across the country including the popular NNPC/SNEPCo Cradle-to-Career scholarships for the six years of secondary school for children from rural areas. The scholarships with over 375 beneficiaries since its commencement in 2014, according to him, cover tuition, boarding and maintenance allowances in leading schools in select Nigerian cities. The Bonga Asset Operations Manager, Elohor Aiboni, described the FPSO as a jewel, noting however that SNEPCo’s achievements did not come without their challenges. “We overcome our challenges with the ingenuity and integrated delivery approach of our staff who work together every day to deliver one of the best assets in the world. “I’m proud to say that over 95 percent of SNEPCo’s staff are Nigerians and they have distinguished themselves as some of the best in the industry within and outside Nigeria,” he said. The Bonga field increased Nigeria’s oil production by 10% when output began in 2005 and has since stimulated the growth of support industries in addition to helping to create the first generation of Nigerian oil and gas engineers with deep-water experience. The FPSO has potential to produce 225,000 barrels of crude oil and 210 million standard cubic feet of gas per day. 