The Nigerian Textile Manufacturers Association (NTMA) has cried out over some incentives given to foreign investors in the country, noting that the incentives are detrimental to local manufacturers. The association however urged the Federal Government to review some of the incentives in order to promote the growth of local manufacturers and boost the country’s economy. The Director-General of NTMA, Hamma Kwajaffa, insisted that some of the incentives set to attract Foreign Direct Investments (FDIs) posed a threat to the survival of many local textile manufacturers. Briefing newsmen in Lagos, Kwajaffa decried the proposal that operators, who invest a minimum of 10 million dollars in local cotton and textile garment industry and employ 500 direct Nigerian staff, can import fabrics worth 50 per cent of their operation levy free for a period of five years. “We textile manufacturers in the country have set a target to boost our production and also a 100 per cent off-take of locally produced raw cotton,” he said. He wondered what would happen to the cotton produced by the local manufacturers, querying, ‘will the farmers wait for you for these five years?’ The DG added, “With the proposed policy, that means you are discouraging cotton production and invariably the value addition to the textile industry. “Afterall, there are investors in the country with more than one billion dollars investment such as Sunflag Ltd., UNTL Ltd., which have above that in the textile industry. “The investors that are being encouraged to come in with finished fabrics would kill local manufacturers and hinder our quest to attain global competitiveness. “If new investors are allowed to import fabrics duty free and VAT free, it will infringe on the planned 1.7 billion metres of finished fabric sector target programme for the textile industry,” he stated. Kwajaffa, who noted that fabric importation by would-be investors would collapse cotton farming, urged government to pursue its drive for foreign investment in a way that would not be inimical to local investors’ competitiveness, employment, wealth creation and industrial growth.