The immediate past Deputy Governor of Kano State, Professor Hafiz Abubakar, has re-joined the All Progressives Congress (APC) which he dumped for the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) few months ago. Abubakar, a loyalist of former Governor Rabiu Kwankwaso, had dumped the APC and resigned his position as deputy governor to Governor Abdullahi Umar Ganduje. Abubakar had contested for the PDP gubernatorial ticket in Kano but lost to Kwankwaso’s son- in law. The professor thereafter dumped the PDP unceremoniously and joined the Peoples Redemption Party (PRP) where he equally lost out to Malam Sagir Takai in the struggle for the gubernatorial ticket. On Wednesday night, Abubakar met President Muhammadu Buhari at the Presidential Villa Abuja together with other returnees including a former Managing Director of the Nigerian Ports Authority, Architect Aminu Dabo; the immediate past National Treasurer of the APC, Bala Mohammed Gwagwarwa; The Security Adviser to Kwankwaso, General Danjuma Dambazau (rtd); Engineer Mu’azu Magaji, all of them staunch members of the Kwankwasiyya as well as Senator Isa Zarewa who left in protest against the last primaries. Buhari in his remarks during the meeting stressed the need for genuine reconciliation and appealed to stakeholders of APC all over the country to work for genuine reconciliation “for the benefit of our people and our nation.” Presidential Assistant on Media and Publicity, Garba Shehu in a statement issued after the meeting, said the president in welcoming the party leaders back to APC assured that the house was large enough to accommodate everyone. They were led to the president by the Governor of Jigawa State, Abubakar Badaru. Shehu said Buhari had promised to speak to the leadership of the party and the government in Kano to accommodate and work with the returnees. Responding to the presidential directive, Governor Ganduje welcomed the return of the party stalwarts. He assured the president that he was ready to work with everyone to record another historic victory in the general elections.  Kano guber: Kwankwaso’s son in-law choice sets Kano PDP boiling As Ganduje, Takai, Yusuf, battle for Kano govt house 2015 POLLS: running mate tears buhari, kwankwaso’s camps apart