The All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in Lagos State, Mr Babajide Sanwo-Olu, visited the paediatric section of the Gbagada General Hospital on Christmas day to lift the spirit of children battling various health conditions. In Osun State, it was fun for children at the lawn of the Government House, Osogbo, the state capital where the wife of the Osun State governor, Mrs Kafayat Oyetola, hosted them. Sanwo-Olu also visited the Gbaja Hospital for Maternal and Child Care, Surulere, where he donated gifts and medical consumables to all new babies and their parents. Sanwo-Olu said his gestures were informed by the Christmas spirit and his personal conviction to lift the downtrodden in their times of need. He noted that his visit to the hospitals was deliberately planned for Christmas day to put smile on the faces of families that could not celebrate because of ailments. “While majority of us have our family members and friends with us to mark the day, we need to understand that many families are in pain because their loved ones are battling various ailments at the hospital. So, it’s no Christmas for these people because they need to be with their ailing family members,” he said. In Osogbo, it was fun galore for children. Apart from the rides, sideshows, dance and games, there were quiz competitions to test the knowledge of the children, particularly on current affairs. Participants and winners got extra gifts. A seven-year-old girl, Folashade Olawale, expressed joy that the kids had a place to come together to play, celebrate and rejoice in the spirit of the season. The event was also attended by top personalities in the state, religious and community leaders, artisans, non-governmental organizations officials and women groups. Mrs Oyetola seized the occasion to charge parents not to relent in making efforts that would ensure proper upbringing and growth for their wards. She also advised the children to shun all forms of social vices and mischievous tendencies that could cause crisis for them and embarrass their family, the state or the nation. She urged them to imbibe the spirit of love and emulate good attitude.  Yuletide: Sanwo-Olu visits sick babies, newborns at Lagos hospitals Sanwo-Olu in early lead in Lagos APC guber primary Disquiet in Lagos APC as Ambode’s aide joins gov’ship race