President Muhammadu Buhari has visited the family of former President Shehu Shagari who died last Friday at the National Hospital, Abuja. The presidential jet conveying the president landed at Sultan Abubakar III International Airport at exactly 10am. The president was received at the airport by Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal of Sokoto state and his Kebbi state counterpart, Abubakar Bagudu as well as Senator Aliyu Magatakarda Wamakko and other APC leaders in the state. The president, alongside Governor Tambuwal, went to the Sama road residence of the late former president where he was received by his family members led by his eldest son and district head of Shagari, Alhaji Bala Shagari, former Governor Attahiru Bafarawa, former minister of Transport, Alhaji Yusuf Sulaiman , traditional rulers and a host of others. DON’T MISS THIS:  BEFORE HIS DEATH, SHAGARI FORGAVE THOSE WHO OFFENDED HIM – ELDEST SON He was then ushered into the sitting room of the late president where he condoled other immediate members of late Shagari’s family including his widows before joining other sympathizers who were seated at the premises of the house. The condolence message of the President was read by Governor Tambuwal. In the message, Buhari described the late President as a “landmark figure” being virtually our last link with the first independent government and the first executive elected President of Nigeria. “Please convey to his immediate family, the people and the government of Sokoto state our heartfelt condolences on the passing away of this great nationalist,” he said. “The Federal Government will in due course institute a suitable memorial to the late former President. Please accept our conferences,” the president concluded his message. Responding, the eldest son of the deceased thanked President Buhari for the visit despite his tight schedule. Similarly, Governor Tambuwal commended the President for the condolence visit. A special prayer was offered for the repose of the soul of the late President by Professor Shehu Galadanci. Galadanci also prayed Allah to grant President Buhari more wisdom and strength in order to continue with the good work he has started. He prayed Allah to guide aright those who have been working against the president. While driving out of Sama road, President Buhari ran into a large crowd of his supporters who were shouting “Sai Mai Gaskiya”, among others Shagari Buried in Country Home Remains of late President Shagari arrive Sokoto Shehu Shagari is laid to rest (Photos)