President Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has removed from office, three High Court Justices, indicted for corruption and bribe-taking three years ago. They are Justices Ayisi Addo, Uuter Paul Dery and Mustapha Habib Logoh. The trio was among the justices, who were implicated by Ghanaian investigative journalist, Anas Aremeyaw Anas for acts of corruption and bribe-taking in 2015. Also, the affected justices may face criminal action, as the president reportedly sent a copy of the report indicting them to the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) of the Ghana Police Service for further action. The justices were removed from office on the recommendation of the Judicial Committee instituted by the Chief Justice of the Republic, Justice Sophia Akuffo pursuant to Article 146(4) of the constitution. The committee recommended their removal from office after finding them liable. The committee established that the conduct of the justices amounted to criminal offences pursuant to the Criminal Offences Act, 1960 (Act 29) as amended. The Director of Communications at the Presidency, Mr. Eugene Arhin, who announced the removal of the justices said in a statement. “The President of the Republic, Nana Addo Dankwa Akufo-Addo has, by a letter dated Thursday, 6thDecember, 2018, removed Mr. Justice Ayisi Addo, Mr. Justice Uuter Paul Dery and Mr. Justice Mustapha Habib Logoh from offices as justices of the High Court.” The Presidential spokesperson said the decision was in conformity with the provisions of Articles 146(9), which empowered the president to fire the indicted officers. According to him, the president had also directed a copy of the committee’s report to be sent to the Criminal Investigations Department (CID) of the Ghana Police Service for requisite action to be taken. The three were among judges and other judicial officers, who were caught on tape by Tiger Eye PI owned by Anas Aremeyaw Anas collecting bribes in cash and kind, including goats to influence the outcome of cases brought before their courts. Other implicated justices were relieved of their positions in 2016. The three had gone to court to challenge Tiger Eye, but the court did not rule in their favour.  Ghana suspends 22 judges over bribery scandal Fighting graft in judiciary Ghana