The Chartered Institute of Bankers of Nigeria (CIBN), has given a Certificate of Accreditation to Unity Bank’s staff training academy. The accreditation, according to the institute, would enable staff of Unity Bank and other institutions be eligible for exemptions from various subjects in the banking professional examinations, thereby facilitating their completion of the professional programs in good time. At the execution of linkage agreements with tertiary institutions and presentation of certificates of accreditation to bank academies and training service providers held at the bankers’ house in Lagos over the weekend, CIBN said Unity Bank Academy has attained a position of recognition and distinction. The Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Unity Bank, Mrs. Tomi Somefun said, in view of the ever-evolving financial technology landscape, fuelled by advances in mobile technologies, there was a growing need for continuous professional capacity development in order to meet the demands of increased customers’ sophistication. She said: “While the Bank is focusing on retail and SMEs and the technology to drive and encourage savings culture, it is also developing its workforce through continuous capacity buiding initiatives. This is in line with the two-pronged customer-centric banking approach being deployed to deliver quality banking services to Small and Medium scale Enterprises in the agricultural value chain.” Speaking at the occasion, President/Chairman of Council, CIBN Uche M. Olowu, congratulated Unity Bank, the United Bank for Africa and 19 other Education Training Service Providers that were accredited. While awarding the Certificates of Accreditation, he said it will not only enable them comply with the provisions of the Competency Framework for the banking industry, it will also go a long way in strengthening the intellectual resources and capabilities available in their institutions. Keystone’s academy gets CIBN accreditation Skye Bank’s Business School gets full accreditation status ICPC, CIBN to tackle corruption in financial sector