The Akwa Ibom State government has said respect for the office of the President of the Federal Republic of Nigeria was the reason it gave permission for the use of the Nest of Champions Stadium in Uyo for the flag off of President Muhammadu Buhari’s South -South campaigns. The state government said the decision of Governor Udom Emmanuel to allow the stadium to be used for the All Progressives Congress campaign was not a sign of weakness but a display of the leadership maturity of the governor. In a statement on Thursday, in Uyo, signed by the Director General,  Divine Mandate Campaign Organisation, (the campaign organisation for the re-election of Governor Udom Emmanuel),  Air Commodore Idongesit Nkanga (rtd) said the government’s decision was designed to foster peace in the state against the violence and drums of war promoted by the opposition. “The decision of the Akwa Ibom State government to grant the use of the Nest of Champions stadium for the APC presidential campaign flag off after an initial concerns over the potential damage to the facility and the humongous repair cost the state government will incur after the event is a clear indication that the Governor of Akwa Ibom State, Mr. Udom Emmanuel respects constitutional offices especially the office of the President,” he said. Nkanga recalled that Senator Godswill Akpabio and the APC had in the past, respectively denied a former governor, Obong Victor Attah, the use of Ibom Hotel and Resort in Uyo for his 70th birthday and PDP Presidential aspirants the Eagles square in Abuja after payments have been made. He stated that unlike the APC, the state government had allowed the party access to state facilities against the claim of Presidential Aide, Senator Ita Enang. He noted that despite being insulted and abused, Gov. Emmanuel had remained focused in his quest for sustainable development, peace and prosperity in the state, adding that the listing of Uyo by the ‘The Economist’ as one of the fastest growing cities in Africa is one of the governance credentials of the PDP government in the state. Gov. Emmanuel approves stadium  for Buhari’s campaign Akwa Ibom governor approves stadium for Buhari's campaign Akwa Ibom APC will force way into stadium for Buhari's campaign - Presidential Aide