The Islamic Vacation Course (IVC) camp organised by the Muslim Students Society of Nigeria (MSSN) in Lagos this year introduced a digital hub for secondary school students to learn coding. The Amir of the MSSN, Lagos State Area Unit, Dr Saheed Ashafa, said this was one of the initiatives to encourage Muslim youths to be Information Communication Technology (ICT) compliant. Ashafa said this in a statement on the 106th IVC, which started at the weekend and would end on January 1, 2019 at the Human Capital Development Centre, Noforija, Epe, Lagos. Apart from the digital hub, Ashafa stated that the Arabic village earlier established during the camping programme would still continue to function. He said, “We understand that things are changing and we have a role to reposition Muslim youths to be relevant regardless of the change. Our camp is known for spiritual and educational development and those will not suffer. “All we have done is to go digital. This started from registration to establishing a digital hub for some of our delegates to learn coding on the camp site. “The 106th IVC Digital Hub is a place for learning and engaging in projects on coding. It shall be taken as one of the extra curricula activities on camp. “Our first target is those who have learnt it in their schools. We shall identify them and give them a little qualification test to ascertain their little knowledge. “Thereafter, we shall pair them and give them some projects to work on. We shall facilitate their project and guide them to achieving their goal. We are also planning to hold an introductory session for others who do not know it but are interested.” On the theme of the camping programme, Ashafa said, “We aim to inculcate spiritual, educational and moral teachings in the participants. Over the years, the camping programme has helped to reduce crime in the society through soul-inspiring lectures and mentorship, increase academic excellence, increase the knowledge about Islam, enhance spirituality and reduce moral decadence.”