The Forum of State Chairmen of the Social Democratic Party (SDP) has expressed support for the decision of the party’s national leadership to appeal the Abuja Federal High Court ruling that sacked Donald Duke as presidential candidate. The chairman of the forum and Delta State SDP chairman, Hon. Oke Idawene, who addressed journalists, yesterday, in Abuja in company of zonal representatives, said the party would come out stronger from the current situation. Idawene said a presidential candidate duly elected by delegates on October 6, 2018 could not be denied his inalienable right based on the provisions of Article 15:3(ii) of the SDP Constitution that was misinterpreted. He said since the section states that the “the office of the president and national chairman of the party shall rotate between the South and North and among the six geopolitical zones,” the law could not be applied while Duke is still a candidate. He said the law specifically mentioned president and not candidate. He said, “The Forum of SDP State Party Chairmen based on the above provision and clarification, will pursue to a logical conclusion, the mandate given to us by thousands of party members from the 37 states of Nigeria including Abuja. “The forum shall stand by the party leadership and abide by the unanimous decision taken by the party’s delegates and the mandate of the 37 state chapters which overwhelmingly nominated and returned Duke as the presidential candidate of the SDP during the party’s national convention and presidential primaries,” he said. They appealed to party members across the country to continue with their normal party activities and campaigns. The briefing was attended by the secretary general of the forum and Plateau State chairman, Abubakar Dogara; Nasarawa chairman, Danlami Musa; Borno State chairman, Abba Modu; Kano State chairman, Bello Ado Hussaini; Ogun State chairman, Chief Kunle Majekodunmi; and Ebonyi State chairman, who doubles as publicity secretary, Austin Ituaweze. SDP pulls out of CUPP ahead of 2019 presidential election Court replaces Duke with Gana as SDP presidential candidate SDP calls for calm over Duke’s disqualification