The Nigerian Civil Aviation Authority (NCAA) has sanctioned four erring operators for various degrees of violations, it was revealed yesterday. The affected airlines include both scheduled and non-scheduled operators, according to a statement by the General Manager, Public Relations of the NCAA, Mr. Sam Adurogboye. The statement said during a spot inspection carried out by NCAA Aviation Safety Inspectors (ASI) on those operators, a number of deficiencies were discovered. Among the deficiencies discovered, it was stated, were non-implementation of training programmes of maintenance personnel as required, irregularities concerning helicopter flight identification, deliberate violation of the regulations, performing maintenance programme without necessary approval and using outdated manual. All these findings are in violation of regulations, the NCAA observed. Daily Trust reports that though the names of the operators were not revealed, among them was a helicopter firm, according to a source, while only one of the operators was involved in deliberate violation of regulations. Usually, the NCAA protects the identity of defaulting airlines for business and commercial reasons except in exceptional cases. Therefore, the various operators were fined ranging from N1.5m – N2m while the operator involved in deliberate violation of regulations had its Air Operator Certificate (AOC) suspended for 180 days. The statement added that NCAA ensured that the affected personnel in question in the employment of one of the airlines were trained accordingly. “NCAA wishes to re-assure all stakeholders that it will continue to ensure that Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) are strictly followed. The authority expects strict compliance with the Nigeria Civil Aviation Regulations in the future and violations will be viewed seriously,” the statement added. NCAA sanctions four airlines over safety violations NCAA : reactionary regulatory style First Nation Airways suspended over illegal operations