State governors took turns to eulogise former President Shehu Shagari who died in Abuja on Friday. Benue State Governor, Samuel Ortom in a statement issued by his Chief Press Secretary, Terver Akase, described the late former president as a true patriot who worked hard for the unity of the country. The governor said that Shagari played a key role in the development of the country and remained a pillar of democracy till his death. Imo State Governor, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, in a statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary, Sam Onwuemeodo, described Alhaji Shagari as a peace loving Nigerian who, throughout his stay on earth cherished, pursued and ensured peace. From Jos, Plateau State Governor, Simon Lalong, in a statement by the governor’s Senior Special Assistant on Media and Publicity, Mark Longyen and mailed to journalists described the late Shagari as a man of rare exemplary character, who epitomized patriotism, integrity, humility and maturity and whose wise counsel will be missed by the nation. The Lagos State Governor, Mr. Akinwunmi Ambode, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Habib Aruna, described the late Shagari as “a complete gentleman, a thoroughbred democrat and philanthropist per excellence who contributed immensely to Nigeria’s growth and development.” Governor Aminu Masari of Katsina State in a statement signed by his Senior Special Assistant on Media, Abdu Labaran Malumfashi, described the late leader as one of the leading conscience of the nation, who lived an exemplary life defined by uncommon simplicity, in the tradition of the late Premier of the North and Sardaunan Sokoto, Sir Ahmadu Bello. The Second Republic governor of Borno State, Alhaji Muhammadu Goni, described late Shagari as an exceptional leader who compromised on essentials whenever the need arose. Goni told Daily Trust on Sunday on phone in Maiduguri yesterday that “Shagari was exceptionally accommodative of the opposition. in his condolence, the vice presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party, (PDP) Mr. Peter Obi, has urged Nigerians to emulate the life of late Shagari, describing it as exemplary. Obi said the death of Shagari was “a national loss” saying that “The late sage was an urbane, humble, polished and tolerant politician.” Saraki, Dogara, Mark mourn Shagari Shagari fired up spirit of democracy, says Okorocha Kukah mourns Shagari