People that engage in electricity theft risk being jailed for seven years, according to a bill currently being worked on by the Senate. ‎The bill, being considered by the Senate Committee on Power, Steel and Metallurgy, also provides that  any person who wilfully cuts or separates, removes or takes away electricity meter from any tower would be sentenced to three years imprisonment. The ‎Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC), which is proposing the legislation through the Senate Committee chaired by Sen Eyinnaya Abaribe (PDP, Abia), made vital proposals in the draft law. During an engagement a‎t the National Assembly, members of the committee raised questions regarding how to measure the quantity of power being “stolen” by users. Responding, the chairman of NERC, Prof James Momoh‎, said the quantity of stolen electricity would be measured from the value the user derived from it. The bill states that if a person, having been convicted of an offence punishable under subsection (1) commits similar offence he shall be liable for the subsequent offence of a term of imprisonment which shall not be less than seven years. The proposed legislation would empower security agents to gain access into any place where there is suspicion that electricity is being illegally and unlawfully used. Another provision of the bill as contained in Section 94 (3) is that anyone who wilfully destroys, damages or removes any electricity distribution lines; or obstructs the distribution of electricity shall be guilty of an offence and shall be liable upon conviction to imprisonment for a period of not less than five years or to a fine of N5 million or both.” NERC chairman said some of the major challenges faced by the power sector included bypass of meters and vandalism of power installations. Electricity: Illegal disconnections, fleecing, monsters for DisCos’ customers Can consumer network check excesses of electricity suppliers? Electricity: Commercial, industrial users to pay more from January