The National Assembly is set to create more development commissions even though the existing ones are ineffective,  riddled with graft allegations, while those created never took off at all. This is coming at a time the federal government resolves to cut the cost of governance in the face of dwindling revenue and prioritization of capital projects. The federal government’s recurrent non-debt spending rose from N2.99 trillion in 2017 to N3.51 trillion in 2018. For eight years now, the Hydro Power Producing Areas Development Commission (HYPADEC) has not taken off yet. HYPERDEC bill was passed by the 6th Assembly and assented to by President Goodluck Jonathan on August 10, 2010. More recently, the North East Development Commission (NEDC) was created by the lawmakers, however, it hasn’t taken off over a year after President Muhammadu Buhari signed it into law. Already, there is the Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC), established in 2000 to facilitate the rapid, even and sustainable development of the Niger Delta into a region that is economically prosperous, socially stable, ecologically regenerative and politically peaceful. It is not clear if NDDC has achieved that mandate in the last 18 years when the commission metamorphosed from Oil Mineral Producing Areas Developments Commission (OMPADEC), a development agency created by the military. In January 2017, Daily Trust reported how the current National Assembly was planning to create about 25 additional federal agencies which could further exacerbate the over bloated bureaucracy despite the economic recession facing the country. In 2017, the federal government allocated N1.985 trillion to the 541 federal agencies, departments, commissions, institutes, and other bodies. Most of these agencies have duplicated roles; dozens hardly do anything apart from keeping the red tape long, while a large number of them overstayed their statutory duties. There are also little-known agencies, ostensibly performing some roles when in reality such duties are no longer being executed by the government. Commissions for southeast, northwest Feigning ignorance of their fiscal burden, the Senate had on Wednesday last week passed for third reading a bill seeking the establishment of the South-East Development Commission (SEDC). SEDC is expected to address majorly the ecological challenges of the region, comprising Abia, Anambra, Ebonyi, Enugu, and Imo states.  The funding for the commission, the Senate said, would come via one percent of the ecological funds due to the five states in the zone. A similar bill was rejected in the House of Representatives last year, a development that divided the lawmakers along regional lines. The Senate said the commission would be a replica of the NEDC. The SEDC bill is expected to be sent to the House for concurrence after which it would be transmitted to Buhari for assent. A day after the passage of the bill, however, ‎another bill seeking to establish the North West Development Commission (NWDC) was presented on the floor of the Senate the bill was sponsored by Senator Jibrin Barau (APC, Kano). Eight years after, NYPERDEC yet to take off In 2015, the House of Representatives mandated its committee on power to investigate the non- take-off of HYPADEC. In a motion sponsored by Rep Mohammad Mahmud, the lawmaker expressed concern that five years (as of 2015) after the law, the commission had yet to take off. The lawmaker said the commission did not take off even though N352.57 million was appropriated in 2011 budget for that purpose. He said nothing was appropriated in 2012 and 2013 budgets. However, Mahmud said, HYPERDEC got an appropriation of N247.50 million in 2014 and N10.00 million in 2015 budgets respectively. 18 years after, NDDC still crawling Daily Trust findings revealed that between 2008 and 2017, N2.510 trillion was allocated to the NDDC alone, although the actual amount released to the commission could not be verified. The breakdown of the amount showed that NDDC was allocated N89 billion in 2008; N128.4bn in 2009; N240bn in 2010; N261bn in 2011; N250bn in 2012; N315bn for 2013; N322bn for 2014; N299bn for 2015; N241bn for 2016 and N364.5bn for 2017. The National Assembly is yet to approve the NDDC budget proposal of N346.5bn for 2018. Despite these budgetary allocations, the story coming out of NDDC is replate with corruption allegations and probes. On March 2016, the Senate Committee on Niger Delta said it uncovered fraud in the award and payments of contracts to the tune of about N15 billion by the NDDC. In one instance, the commission paid the sum of N3.9 billion for a non-existing contract in Ondo State; and in another in Bayelsa state, projects amounting to over N10.8 billion were awarded and payments made with the jobs abandoned. The committee’s chairman, Senator Peter Nwaoboshi (PDP, Delta) disclosed these to journalists in Uyo weekend during the committee’s oversight of NDDC projects in parts of the Niger Delta. On June 2017, the federal government ordered an investigation into the educational qualification of members of staff of the NDDC. Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Mr Uguru Usani the investigation would expose ghost workers and staff members, who gained employment in the commission with forged certificates. NEDC to reconstruct Northeast NEDC’s mission is to lead the reconstruction and development of Nigeria’s northeast, with a mandate to receive and manage funds allocated by the federal government and international donor agencies for the resettlement, rehabilitation, integration and reconstruction of roads, houses and business premises of victims of insurgency as well as tackling the menace of poverty and environmental challenges of the area. The sources of funding for the commission are10 percent of annual statutory allocations to each member states from the federation account; the sum of at least 10 percent of the ecological funds annually for a period of 10 years;‎ fees charged by the commission, gifts grants from donor agencies, among others. Oronsoye’s report abandoned On August 18, 2011, the federal government had raised a Presidential Committee on the Rationalization and Restructuring of Federal Government Parastatals, Commissions and Agencies headed by former Head of Service of the Federation, Steven Oronsaye, to merge or trim government agencies and commissions. The panel recommended the reduction of statutory agencies of government from 263 to 161, scrapping of 38 agencies, merger of 52 and conversion of 14 to departments in ministries as well as the removal of all professional bodies/councils from the national budget in order to slash the exorbitant cost of governance. A White Paper was released by the President Goodluck Jonathan on the Oronsaye report. Though the White Paper implementation committee was reconstituted last year by President Muhammadu Buhari, none of the recommendations of the report was has been implemented.  In December 2016, the National Economic Council (NEC), agreed in their meeting to begin the implementation of the Oronsaye report. Speaking after the meeting, Kaduna State Governor Nasiru el-Rufai said: “At the federal level, we are suggesting looking at the Oronsaye report that suggested merger and reduces duplications of agencies.” He said “there is a need to look at those that are duplicating and merge them. We are spending too much on running the government than on goods and services in serving the population.” Over two years after, the federal government, like its predecessors, developed cold feet in the implementation of the Oronsaye report. FG’s commitment to NEDC doubtful – CISLAC The Executive Director of the Civil Society Legislative and Advocacy Centre (CISLAC), Auwal Musa Rafsanjani, told Daily Trust by telephone last night that ‎the government does not appear to be committed to the taking off of the NEDC. He said looking at the high level of devastation in the Northeast, Nigerians would have expected that by now, the commission would have been up and running. “The administration should have been proactive to make sure that the commission has taken off. There should have been all the structures in place for the commission to start operating. “Even the very policy that the government is supposed to have on IDPs hasn’t been in place. The last five-year policy has elapsed, and the government didn’t deem it fit to come up with a new one. We’ve been advocating for Mr President to give effect to the policy but in vain,” he said. How  Jonathan approved, killed hydropower commission’ Constitution review: As Reps  return to their bases today Renewable Energy: We will render operators of electricity generating sets “jobless” – Osinbajo