President Muhammadu Buhari has warned public auditors against shielding corruption in the accounts of Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) during their audit processes. The warning is coming on the heels of government’s recent directives that agencies of government, especially revenue generating agencies, must be audited not later than four months after the end of each accounting year. The president gave the directive at the annual conference of Auditors-General of Nigeria, with theme ‘Nigeria’s Drive Towards the Achievement of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs): The Strategic Roles of Auditors-General’, held yesterday in Abuja. The president, who was represented by Mrs. Winifred E. Oyo-Ita, Head of the Civil Service of the Federation, also said the Federal Government has introduced several reform initiatives in the financial sector that can reduce the tide of corruption. He added that the Federal Government is providing support to states to strengthen weak institutions in them. “At the state level, several measures have been introduced to achieve certain minimum improvements in governance and public financial management. These include the State Fiscal Transparency, Accountability and Sustainability programme (SFTAS), in which $700 million will be made available as grants to states,” he said. He added: “Similarly, $50 million in technical assistance will be made available to key agencies in the states to build capacity.” The initiatives the Federal Government introduced to engender accountability, he said, include “the Treasury Single Account (TSA) which has tremendously reduced leakages in the system. “Similarly, the Federal Government has introduced the Presidential Initiative of Continuous Audit (PICA). PICA has the mandate to validate controls, assess risks, prune personnel costs, ensure compliance with public financial management reforms, detect errors and make recommendations to management for necessary actions,” the president said. In his remarks, the Auditor-General of the Federation, Mr. Anthony Ayine, said though governments had been making budgetary expenditures to improve the lives of the citizens, budgets need to be interrogated for efficiency. No contract confirmation without NITDA clearance, Auditor General tells MDAs Audit reports not to criminalise MDAs - FG NITDA clearance, a must on IT projects, Auditor General tells MDAs