Local government retirees in Ekiti state have asked Governor Kayode Fayemi to investigate why they were excluded in the November salary and pensions payment when civil servants and other pensioners in the state were paid. They expressed regret that despite introducing centralized payment for all pensioners in the state, they were sidelined in the November payment. The retirees under the aegis of Concerned Local Government Pensioners’ Association of Nigeria however, lauded the government’s decision to pay pensioners in the state from central source describing it as a veritable way to curb corruption in the state civil service. They said the process would make retirees in the state to have equal attention and receive their payments when civil servants are paid. Fayemi had upon assumption of office on October 16, promised to initiative centralized electronic payment system for all pensioners in the state. Speaking in Ado Ekiti on Thursday, group chairman, Alhaji Quadri Oguntuase and Secretary, Mr. Abiodun Agboola, lamented the exclusion of their members despite promise made by the governor that all pensioners would henceforth be paid centrally. They urged Fayemi to resolve the logjam leading to delay in the payment of November salary and also investigate the mystery behind the delay and impose appropriate sanctions on workers creating unnecessary bottleneck, causing untold hardship to members. Oguntuase specifically expressed sadness that many of their members who are on drugs could not afford their medicare owing to acute financial problem, urging the governor to intervene in the issue and resolve the delay in the interest of the local government  pensioners. “Our fear  was  assuaged by the promise made by Governor Fayemi  that all State and local government pensioners will be paid centrally to ensure prompt payment and checkmate corruption. We agreed with this arrangement and praise the governor for this landmark initiative. “On Friday November 30,  2018 in line with Governor Fayemi’s vow to pay as and when due,  all the serving local government workers, state retirees and even primary school teachers pensioners received their payment while the local government retirees were left behind. We are a little bit taken aback by this delay, because all our colleagues have been paid. Even the primary school teachers retirees who are under local governments have been paid, we wonder why are we now being sidelined”, he stated.