The National President, Kulen Allah Cattle Rearers Association of Nigeria (KACRAN), Khalil Muhammad Bello has commended the federal government for establishing pasture and boreholes to support pastoralists across the country. Bello said in press release made available to Kanem Trust that the association was a direct beneficiary of the laudable projects. “Having been direct beneficiaries of this laudable project which is currently going on under the right leadership of the office of the Vice President, through the Ministry of Agriculture and Rural Development, Department of Animal Husbandry Services, we fully considered this program as a right move in a right direction. “We believe that, this program, if carefully implemented in the most of the Nigeria’s grazing reserves, coupled with re-demarcation of most of the narrowed or completely blocked cattle routes, it will greatly reduce if not completely bring to an end the wanton and very painful intermittent destructive perennial conflicts between cattle rearers and farmers”. He noted that the initiative would help in developing livestock production in Nigeria and abroad, as well as helping towards providing nutritional food for Nigerians. “It will also foster peace and unity in the country,as well as help in ending the unnecessary movements of herders from one place to another in search for water and pasture for their livestock which normally breeds conflicts between pastoralists and farmers. “At the same time, we want to assure the federal government and the entire people of Nigeria that if these projects are carried out successfully they would greatly enhance the Nigeria’s economy. “The projects would also serve as a means for job creations to thousands or millions Nigerians who would resort to livestock production as a lawful profession to earn their livelihood as it was before. “We also want to highly commend the Hon. Minister of Agriculture Audu Ogbeh, his Permanent Secretary, Dr.Abdulkadir Mu’azu and the entire staff of the Department of Animal Husbandry services ,who are working hard towards the development of livestock industry in Nigeria and implementing government’s policies and programmes effectively.” He called on the federal government to provide more budgetary allocation to support arable and livestock farmers. Are we ready for the white revolution? Provide dams to boost livestock production - Miyetti Allah Great Green Wall: Over N310m worth of trees wilted