Buhari/Osinbajo for Continuity 2019 has resolved to commence door-to-door campaign across Nigeria to ensure the re-election of President Muhammadu Buhari and Vice President Yemi Osinbajo who “are expected to take the country to the next level.” The National Coordinator of the group, Hon. Ayuba Musa Birma, while speaking at a world press conference in Abuja on Thursday, urged voters to eschew bitterness, saying their campaigns would preach peace before, during and after the elections. Birma, at the event attended by former minister of Education, Prof. Chinwe Obaji and incumbent Senator Tunde Anifowose Kelani among others, urged all candidates to play by the rules by avoiding campaigns that promote hatred, intolerance, and disunity among fellow Nigerians. While promising to expose anyone who engaged in vote buying, he implored the electoral body to remain impartial, ignore all insinuations of the opposition and work towards free, fair and credible elections. He urged other Buhari support groups to join hands with them to ensure the re-election of Buhari and Osinbajo, stressing that Nigeria has made progress in the last three and a half years. He said, “Under the most pragmatic President Buhari, Nigeria is undergoing critical reforms in the political, social and economic spheres, never undertaken by any administration in our country’s recent history. “Great successes have been recorded and now, President Buhari and his vice, Prof. Osinbajo, are poised to take Nigeria to the next level. “Without prejudice to the war against corruption, the fight against insecurity and investments in education and health, social infrastructure; President Buhari’s Roads, Rails, Agriculture and Power (RRAP) projects stand out as the most ambitious and massive physical infrastructure plan ever embarked upon at a time in Nigeria by one regime. “These four critical infrastructure projects have three to five years completion cycle, especially when Mr President has utilised his integrity quotient to garner funds for their implementation. “The RRAP projects are no doubt the foundation stone for the industrialisation, peace and prosperity of our dear country. We stand to be contradicted, for it will open the frontiers for the hardworking and entrepreneurial Nigerians who had been stunted by deficit infrastructure,” he added. Prof. Obaji, in her speech, said Buhari and Osinbajo needed a second term to lead the country completely out of economic, political and security crisis. She said, “Government critics have used lopsided statistics to compare Nigeria with China and other countries on economic and infrastructural development, but they carefully excluded the fact that for China to get to where they are today, they established a zero tolerance on corruption. “I hereby caution that a country like Nigeria that has been so recently traumatised with wanton corruption, impunity at all levels, extremely decayed infrastructure, callous and insensitive state leadership, and insurgency cannot afford to have its healing process truncated. The president needs time and cooperation to take us to the Promised Land.” Prof. Obaji said Buhari and Osinbajo had the track records to provide quality leadership to take the country to the next level. Group educates Abuja women on PVCs, APC logo 2019: Gudaji Kazaure launches campaign platform for Buhari 2019: Wike group threatens nationwide protest against rigging