The D-8 Organization for Economic Cooperation, and the federal government are working towards situating the secretariat of the D8 Health partnership and Social Protection programme in Nigeria. Secretary General of D-8 Organization for Economic Cooperation, Ambassador Dato’ Ku Jaafar Ku Shaari disclosed this during an interview with Daily Trust yesterday in Abuja. D-8 Organization for Economic Cooperation, is an organisation for development co-operation among eight developing countries in the Muslim world. They include: Bangladesh, Egypt, Nigeria, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Pakistan, and Turkey.  It was established in 1997 and aimed at sustainable economic development , and uplifting the standards of living of member states. Shaari  who is on a visit to Nigeria said the D-8 Health Partnership and Social Protection Programme is a new initiative approved during the organisation’s  41st commission meeting in Turkey last month. He said he was in the country to solicit the support of Nigeria for the initiative and that the Minister of Health, Professor Isaac Adewole has promised to support the programme. The secretary general said he also intends to meet with the ministers of trade and industry, and  education  for new initiatives such as industrial pacts , supporting at least five Nigerian students on postgraduate programmes to D8 International University in Iran, as well as a women and youth summit. He also thanked the Nigerian government for providing three universities for the  D-8 Network of Pioneers for Research and Innovation. Shaari  said he embarked on a visit to member states to discuss possible initiatives, strengthen relationships and know their expectations and challenges, among others. The Special Adviser on Health Partnership and Social Protection Programme to D-8,  Dr. Ado Muhammad, said the health programme targets five areas that are important for the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), World Health Organization  (WHO) agenda, and the United Nation Programs .Dr Muhammad who is also the former Executive Director/CEO, National Primary Health care Development Agency said  the programme targets strengthening primary healthcare system, strengthening the engagement of the private sector in the heath sector, and reducing incidences of non-communicable diseases, among others. D-8 to establish industrial park, credit cards among member states Osinbajo tasks D8 countries to depend less on oil Key Takeaways From President Muhammadu Buhari’s Four-Day Engagement in Turkey