The Nigerian Young Professional Forum, NYPF has thrown its weight behind the re-election bid of Delta state governor, Senator Ifeanyi Okowa. The group described Okowa as a benevolent administrator, calling on all youth groups to support the governor and his team. It claimed that the governor has embarked on massive economic development and accomplished projects that have brought about human capacity development and provided jobs for youths in Delta state The call came was made when the forum met with over 2000 young professionals from Delta State in Asaba on Tuesday. In his remarks, the Delta state chapter coordinator of NYPF, Sunday Ebikeme Omuze praised governor Okowa for initiating and accomplishing landmark projects in the state, saying “we are proud of the social and economic revival that governor Okowa has brought to Delta state, and for the laudable achievements. We at the state chapter of the NYPF are asking the national NYPF to assist us in canvassing support for this outstanding governor. We are confident that he will be re-elected and for the next four years he will deliver more development projects to our state and of course help our youths and professionals make progress through the various development programs the governor has put in place”. Director of finance and administration of NYPF, Hon. Godfrey Ishegbe who hails from the state remarked that the achievement of governor Okowa is noteworthy and beneficial to the ordinary people, especially as it has provided jobs to a good number of youths who were hitherto abandoned. On his part, the Chairman and Founder of NYPF, Moses Siloko Siasia stated that Okowa is one of the few governors in Nigeria that has seen youth growth as a priority for sustainable development. He stated that the governor has touched the lives of many young people in the state. Siasia further noted that the NYPF recently awarded the governor in Abuja at the 5th Anniversary Banquet Dinner in recognition of his outstanding qualities. He said, “after x-raying the job creation drive and skills acquisition programmes which have created a strong culture of entrepreneurship in Delta state, which is compared to none, we will mobilize all affiliate youth and professional groups to support the governor’s re-election bid”. The group noted that under the flagship job creation programmes which entails Skills Training and Entrepreneurship Programme (STEP) and Youth Agricultural Entrepreneurs Programme (YAGEP), the governor has created a total of 3,073 direct jobs from 2015 to 2018, saying “the information we have indicates that both programmes have additional 1,180 youths in customized skills acquisition, agricultural training and entrepreneurship development modules and will be established to own and run their enterprises at the end of the Programme cycle in few months. This is commendable and we are committed to supporting this performing government”. NYPF  to honour Imam Abdullahi Abubakar, Okowa, Danjuma, Ikpeazu, others Okowa felicitates with Uduaghan at 64 2019: Nigeria's integrity hinges on credible elections - Okowa