Osun State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party and the state government have continued to trade words on the 2019 budget presented to the State House of Assembly by the state Governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola. The PDP Chairman in the state, Mr Soji Adagunodo in a press statement said calling the appropriation bill a “budget of hope” indicated hopeless situation that the All Progressive Congress under the Rauf Aregbesola left the state. In a swift reaction, the Supervisor of the Ministry of Information and Strategy, Mr Adelani Baderinwa said the criticism of the budget by PDP was fallacious without benefit of any kind to our people of the state. Adagunodo said “PDP and people should commend Oyetola’s sincere assessment of the Osun hopelessness under APC/Aregbesola’s misrule for eight years in a government Oyetola was actively involved. “While acknowledging the contributions of Oyetola about the hopeless state of Osun, despite that he served in that administration as Chief of Staff, a post described by Aregbesola as ‘engine room’, we however appreciate the departure from the self denial that brought the state to this quagmire, ” Adagunodo said. The PDP chairman then called on the people not to be deceived by the false hope in the budget, saying that “a man who was the engine room of the hopelessness cannot give any hope.” Adagunodo also wondered where the state that has about N5b debt to pay monthly will get over N150B to execute the budget. Reacting to the PDP criticism, Baderinwa said “while we acknowledge the role of opposition to include critiquing policies, programmes and projects of government for the overall benefit of the general society, we take exception to criticism which tends to be fallacious in nature and without benefit of any kind to our people.” He said the a criticism clearly shows that PDP lacks intellectual input, basic understanding of governance. He said the party has great deficiencies in understanding of what governance is all about. His words “It amounts to sheer intellectual laziness and lack of competence on the part of the PDP to criticize a budget based on its christening and failed woefully to critically address the content of the budget as a whole. No critical minded opposition will embark on wild goose chase as PDP has done on the budget”, he said. PDP gains in Osun as APC chieftain resigns appointment, defects to party Who becomes governor as Osun votes today? INEC issues Certificate of Return to Osun governor-elect