A 50-year-old machine operator, Franklin Temitayo, has approached an Agege customary court, Lagos, seeking the dissolution of his 14-year-old “loveless marriage.” Temitayo, an indigene of Ondo town, told the court yesterday that there was no more love between him and his wife, Titilayo, whom he described as “an arrogant and insatiable woman.” The father of three, said, “My wife is disrespectful and troublesome. She no longer loves and cares for me as her husband. She is never appreciative and considerate as she keeps demanding for more. Whenever l give her feeding allowance, she diverts the money to her personal use and demands for more money. “There was a time she held onto my shirt and stopped me from going to work demanding for money. My wife keeps harassing and insulting me that l am irresponsible and do not care. “This became unbearable and l became unhappy and frustrated, which led to my moving out of the house. I want the court to separate us as I am no longer interested in the union. l do not want a murder case on my neck.” Titilayo, however, denied all the allegations her husband made against her, saying Temitayo was “irresponsible.” She said whenever he collected his salary, he wouldn’t come home for many days and wouldn’t give the family feeding allowance nor pay the children’s school fees. “For four years, my husband abandoned me and the children without looking back until this year when my mother died. My husband came to visit the children and used that pretext to take them away,” she said. The 34-year-old saleswoman, however, appealed to the court not to dissolve the marriage. “I do not want to end the marriage because of the love l have for my children. l do not want them to grow up in a separated homes,” she said. She urged the court to help her resolve the issues between her and the husband. The court president, Mrs Patricia Adeyanju, advised the estranged couple to keep the peace, and adjourned the case till January 21, 2019 to allow a possible resolution of the quarrel between the couple. Mother of 4 seeks dissolution of 23-yr-old marriage I caught another woman cooking for my husband, wife tells court Housewife loses 7-year-old marriage for demanding N500 per sex-bout with husband