President Muhammadu Buhari has enjoined Nigerians to show generosity to their neighbours as they get set for tomorrow’s Christmas celebration. The President, in a Christmas message he personally signed on Monday, also appealed to Nigerians to demonstrate the diversity of the country. “I felicitate with all Nigerians, particularly our Christian brothers and sisters, on the joyous occasion of this year’s Christmas, which commemorates the birth of Jesus Christ. “Like I have done in the last three Christmas messages to my fellow compatriots as a serving President, I believe this season is another opportunity to reflect on the imagery of the humble, symbolic and divine birth of a young child thousands of years ago in Bethlehem, Judea, and the message of hope, compassion, salvation, reconciliation, forgiveness and peace that Jesus Christ embodies and conveys,” he said. He said in 2018, Nigerians have had mixed blessings, typical of human beings. “On the pleasant side, our economy has made significant progress since coming out from recession and our faithful implementation of the Economic Recovery and Growth Plan,” he said. He said Agricultural revolution has seen a vastly improved local production to the detriment of importation, adding that his administration had achieved surplus in the country’s trade balance. “Similarly, infrastructural deficit has been greatly reduced with significant improvements in roads, railways, aviation and power. “In addition, we have not relented in the fight against corruption while the business environment has been improved through institutional reforms. “On the downside, we have seen so many unnecessary deaths caused by violent clashes between neighbours, who ordinarily should complement and support one another. “We cannot bring back the lives lost to floods, unfortunate fire disasters, road accidents, farmers/herders clashes and insurgency. “But we can put back smiles on the faces of the grieving, the displaced and the troubled, if we show a little love and recommit ourselves to building relationships with those outside our ethnic, religious and socio-political divides. “As we celebrate Christmas, exchange gifts, pray and visit loved ones, let us remember many others who cannot be with their families this time,” he said. The president said the Armed Forces, and other security men and women who make incredible sacrifices to keep us safe, the aged, the sick, physically challenged persons, all deserve our goodwill in this season of love and sharing. Christmas: Tinubu calls for support for Buhari Buhari at Christmas: Better days ahead Merry Christmas!