Seven soldiers and two civilians were yesterday confirmed to have been killed in a crossfire with Boko Haram militants who launched a coordinated attack on the headquarters of the 7-Briagade, Multi-national Joint Task Force (MJTF) in Borno State. The Nigerian troops had repelled the attack and pursued the fleeing insurgents who scattered around communities situated within seashore boundaries of the Lake Chad at Baga, Kukawa local government area of the state. A security source told Daily Trust in Maiduguri that seven military personnel and other two civilians were killed, while over 12 soldiers sustained injuries during the attack. “Several gun trucks, caches of ammunition and dozens of RPG tube were carted away by the insurgents,” the source said. He said the troops who were dislodged from the Briagade had fled to the Naval Base Component located near main Baga town. Shortly after the attack that took place around 7 o’clock Wednesday night, the troops of the 7-Briagade, MJTF were reinforced by other troops from the Operation Lafiya Dole as well as that of the Nigerian Air Force. Army spokesman, Brigadier-General Sani Usman, confirmed the attack in a statement yesterday in Maiduguri. He stated: “Suspected Boko Haram terrorists attacked the headquarters of 7 Brigade Multinational Joint Task Force (MNJTF),  Baga, Borno State, at about 7.00pm. “The troops along with their Nigerian Navy counterparts put up a very determined fight to repel the attack throughout the night, while Sector-3 Operation Lafiya Dole sent in reinforcement who are in hot pursuit of the terrorists. Similarly, a Search and Rescue team has been constituted. “The Nigerian Air Force component has also been mobilised and are engaging the fleeing terrorists. “Unfortunately, a naval personnel was killed in action.So far, no  further details of casualties yet as efforts are on going to clear the terrorists hiding in Baga and environs. “We enjoin all to remain calm as the troops conduct clearance and mop up operations. We implore members of the general public to disregard any contrary information circulating on the attack. “We will keep you posted with development on the pursuit and mop up operations.” Troops repel B/Haram attack on Maiduguri What happened in Baga? Gunmen kill 24 in Borno villages