Former chairmen and ward officers under the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Akwa Ibom state who led over 20,000 party members to decamp to the Peoples’ Democratic Party (PDP) have alleged that their lives were being threatened. The chairmen who said stalwarts were attacked in Nsit Atai, Ibesikpo Asutan, Eket and Ikot Ekpene local government areas on their way back from the defection rally stated that many of them were molested and harassed by hoodlums allegedly sponsored by the APC. Speaking in Uyo during a press conference by former state, chapter and ward officers of the APC, a former chairman, Mr Joseph Amah who spoke on behalf of the 26 leaders covering 19 local government areas in the state who decamped, said that they have been receiving threats messages and phone calls to withdraw their defection. “Prior to yesterday’s event, there were spirited moves to prevent us from holding the event but we gallantly marched on, knowing that the true measure of a man isn’t where he stands in moment of comfort and convenience. “Our members in their thousands trooped out and colourfully celebrated their freedom from political oppressions and unending impunity, as practiced in the APC. “Thereafter, as our people were heading home joyously to share the good news of redemption with their kiths and kin, they were molested on the road by hoodlums sponsored by the APC. “In Nsit Atai, the former chapter chairman’s vehicle was attacked and his tyres destroyed. In Ibesikpo Asutan, Eket and Ikot Ekpene, the former APC stalwarts were harassed and intimidated. This ugly situation is most reprehensible and must be totally condemned. “This press conference is to alert the entire public that if anything bad happens to us, Chief Godswill Akpabio, Obong Nsima Ekere, Uyo Nathaniel and Chief Sunny Ibanga should be held responsible. “Having not yielded to their pressures to remain in their evil political coven, they have resorted to threats and violence. In the days ahead, we will expose the contents of the play book of the APC and how they hope to overrun the state with federal might,” he said. He blamed some APC leaders for the attack, adding that they decided to join the PDP because they were “tired of the systematic deceit, strategic economic demobilisation and sheer lack of focus by the leadership of the APC. Zamfara PDP chairmen disown Shinkafi on defection 5000 PDP members in Akwa Ibom LG defect to APC, pledge support for Umana, Mbeh Akpabio: APC’s Silver Bullet for South-South