There was pandemonium on Thursday at Trinity area of Apapa, Lagos when a policeman shot dead a tanker driver. Trouble started when the policeman allegedly demanded for a toll of N1000 from the tanker driver who said he could only afford N500. Our reporter gathered that the refusal of the driver did not go down well with the policeman who later shot him. It was learnt that the deceased colleagues attempted to lynch the policeman but he was rescued by his colleagues who fired sporadically to scare away the drivers and conductors who had formed a crowd around the area. Daily Trust learnt that other tanker drivers took to the street to protest the killing of their colleague. The protesting drivers and conductors barricaded the road into Apapa with their trucks, thus causing heavy gridlock. They also burnt used tyres on the road forcing shop owners and other businessmen around the area to close shops, as street urchins popularly called “Area Boys,” used the opportunity to rob innocent passersby. Many people were injured just as some vehicle’s windscreens were destroyed by the Area Boys, it was learnt. A tanker driver, Danladi Usman, said the extortion was becoming too much from the security agents. “We pay N1,000 to police, N3,000 to Navy. We pay to officials of the Lagos State Traffic Management Agency (LASTMA) and to local government officials and above all to Area Boys. “The extortion is becoming a burden to us. If we don’t have any money to pay, they make us pay with our lives. Is it a crime to be a truck driver?” he said. Another driver, Shehu Adamu, said the killing of truck drivers by security operatives was becoming one too many adding that they have vowed to put an end to it. It was learnt that the driver was shot dead by a policeman attached to the Federal Special Anti-Robbery Squad (FSARS) posted to Ajegunle to tackle traffic robbers along the Mile 2- Apapa axis. When contacted, the Lagos State Police Public Relations, Chike Oti said information on the incident was still sketchy. “There was a crisis in the area and we heard that someone died in the crisis. The Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, has directed for a full scale investigation into the matter and at the end of the investigation, anyone found culpable will be made to face the wrath of the Law. However, the outcome of the investigation will be made known to members of the public,” he said. Tanker drivers burn 2 banks  over police killing of colleague Killing of tanker driver: Lagos Police Command arrests trigger-happy policeman Tanker drivers protest, block Lokoja-Abuja road over colleague''s killing