The Chief of Staff and son-in-law to Governor Rochas Okorocha of Imo State, Uche Nwosu, will vie for the Imo governorship seat on the platform of Action Alliance (AA). This has ended speculations concerning Nwosu’s next line of action after his former party, the APC, refused to submit his name as the party’s flag-bearer for the 2019 elections. AA was founded by Okorocha some years ago before he dumped it for the PDP, then APGA on which platform he won the governorship seat in 2011, before he dumped it also for the APC. Nwosu’s posters started flooding Owerri, the Imo State capital, late yesterday, even before a formal declaration, thus beating the December 2, deadline for the substitution of candidates’ names by INEC. The final list of parties’ candidates will be made known January 31, 2019. However, all these are coming at a time the man who claimed to be the governorship candidate of AA for the 2019 elections, Sir Leonard Okolienta, said he remained the candidate of the party for the election. He dismissed the claims of Uche Nwosu as being the candidate of the party, saying he (Nwosu) “is an impostor.” Okolienta said Nwosu was neither a member of the party nor did he contest in the governorship primary of the party. Speaking at a press briefing in Owerri yesterday Okolienta maintained that he remained the authentic governorship candidate of the party in the state and that he had not sold his mandate to anybody. He said, “Uche Nwosu is just an impostor for claiming that he is now the governorship candidate of the Action Alliance because I have not surrendered my mandate to anybody and I will not surrender it to anybody because it is not for sale, neither is the state for sale,” he said. An official of APC, who spoke to Daily Trust, said with the recent development, it could not be ascertained under which party Nwosu would be contesting. He said, “He has been associating with many political parties because most of them kept rejecting his offers. Remember he has been associated with Democratic Peoples Party (DPP); so until the formal declaration, even with posters of AA, it is not certain the political platform that would offer him the opportunity.” Imo guber: Nwosu’s banner under AA floods Imo, as party disowns him My son in-law will contest Imo gov’ship in another party – Okorocha How son in-law may succeed father in-law in Imo