The Lagos State governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, has assured the  residents that the year 2019 budget proposal  to be presented to the State House of Assembly would be dedicated towards the completion of ongoing infrastructural projects and creation of more jobs, as well as strengthening the security architecture of the state. Ambode, who spoke separately at the Christmas Eve Dance of the Yoruba Tennis Club and the Island Club in Lagos, on Monday night, said lots of provisions had been made for capital projects in the 2019 federal budget, while the Lagos State government, in return, would be concentrating on scaling up infrastructure, among others so as to enhance growth and development. Alluding to the positive economic projections for Nigeria in 2019 by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Gov Ambode said Lagos, on a stand-alone basis in the year under reference, would achieve four per cent growth in gross domestic product (GDP), adding that the social intervention initiatives of both the state and federal governments would also go a long way to facilitate serious reduction in unemployment rate. “The economic outlook for 2019 is quite positive. A lot of provision has been made for capital projects in the 2019 federal budget, some of which will directly impact the economy of our state and will support our growth plans. On our part, we will concentrate on completing existing infrastructural projects, creating more jobs, supporting our businesses to thrive and strengthening our security infrastructure. “According to the IMF, the Nigeria GDP will grow from 1.9 per cent in 2018 to 2.8 per cent in 2019. Lagos on a stand-alone basis will achieve over 4 per cent growth in GDP and this could be more if the congestion at the port and the negative effect this has on the economy is addressed. We expect that the high rate of unemployment will reduce with various social intervention programmes of the state and federal governments geared towards financial inclusion and liquidity support to micro, small and medium enterprises,” the governor said. Recalling the activities of his administration in the last three and half years, the Governor said it was particularly fulfilling that the State had made tremendous progress in all sectors of the economy and had become more globally competitive and strategically positioned among the major city-states worldwide. “Three and a half years down the line, our State has progressed in all sectors of the economy. We have charted a clear path to the destination we have all dreamt about and desired. Today, our Lagos has become more globally competitive and strategically positioned among the major City-States of the world. Our State has become a top destination for business and tourism and it can only get better. “We have undertaken projects in all sectors of the economy with the sole intention of making life better for our people. All of these and similar initiatives were made possible by the personal taxes of high net worth residents of our state represented at this gathering, which account for a significant percentage of our IGR,” Ambode said. In their respective addresses, the Chairman of Island Club, Mr. Olabanji Oladapo and his counterpart in Yoruba Tennis Club, Professor Adetokunbo Fabamwo commended Governor Ambode for the various infrastructural projects executed in the clubs, saying it was laudable that the governor had kept his promise. Can Ambode surpass Fashola’s feat in Lagos? Lagos to train 1 million students on coding by 2019 Niger proposes N159.5bn budget for 2019