The Technical Director, Geocardinal Engineering Services Limited,  Mr Adeyemo Titilope, is a registered mining engineer and runs a consulting firm in mining and solid minerals development. In this interview, he says the mining sector has the capacity to give government more than it gets from the oil sector if properly managed.  Mining is a high risk business, why did you go into that sector? As an explorationist, you must understand that you are not looking for a scientific curiosity; rather you are looking for a mass of rock which can be made into a mine. Mining is a high-risk business. There is the geological, political, metal price risk and the mine financing risk. However, success is the summation of a list of well-evaluated risks. What processes do you go through? You must first do a pre-feasibility study to know your competency and capacity, both financially and technically. Then you now carry out feasibility study to know the economic viability of the venture. Government, however, has to support this in order to make it work efficiently. These are some of the reasons why some miners abandon their titles, especially when they have no capital to push them further. You occasionally hear about the revocation of mining titles. Permit me to tell you that some of those revocations were because the titles did not meet the statutory requirements. These requirements are what you are supposed to do as a title holder, which include submission of the quarterly reports, payment of annual service fee, etc. The mining sector in Nigeria is in its green state. By this I mean that we are still at the developmental stages. Mining is a capital intensive venture and some people get into it without carrying out the necessary studies. Remember that I also mentioned that the government has to support this in order to make it work efficiently. I said this because from our findings as a consultancy services firm that has been operating for more than a decade, we’ve come to realise that these are some of the reasons why some operators abandon their titles. And the major constraint to some of these explorationists is when they have no capital to push the business further. What will you say about the recent revocation of some operators’ mining titles by government? The revocation of those licences is just. In fact, it is long overdue because some genuine investors who want to work could not do so. And this is because some of the areas that they (genuine investors) have interest to work on have been occupied by speculators. These genuine investors just have to leave such places because the licences were issued on the basis of first come, first served. Our firm has three mining titles. We have in Nasarawa, Osun and Niger states. As a geoscientist, have you done an estimate on these and what government is losing as royalty from the mining sector? We are currently involved in the revenue optimisation across the country. We were asked to find out some of the royalties that some companies did not pay for in the past 6-8 years.  We went round and we saw a lot of lapses. Some people are paying partially, and some have not paid. In the mining sector, there is no company that is paying up to 50% percent of the royalty they are supposed to pay to government. We are losing multi-billion naira.  If you look at the report of NEITI you will always see it at the end of it.  Compared with what NNPC is remitting, mining can favourably compete and remit same if not more. The mining sector in Nigeria has the capacity to overtake the oil and gas industry. But for us as a nation to achieve this, we have to put round pegs in round holes. A lot of things have to be done to achieve this. There should be partnerships between the investor and government in the form of joint ventures. You don’t leave all the risk on a single individual, for when you carry out an exploration, you have the chance of getting a mineral deposit that is of economic value or one that is not. What can the private sector do to help drive the mining industry? The private sector is using their money to develop their mines/sector instead of government partnering with them by giving loans to them.  First, when you invest, you will have to get your money back. But if government gave you some and you have some, you have the mandate to pay what you need to pay to the government. So government should fund the sector genuinely. Again, the mining licence should carry a weight that it can be a collateral to enable you to borrow money from the bank. Any licence from the Mining Cadastral office should have a weight that when you present it to a bank, it should serve as your C of O, but can a bank recognise any of that here. So government must make mining licence carry weight. Those are the things we should look at. Those that have mining sites in South Africa are more than those that have estates. So if we want the mining sector to come to limelight, government should have a reason to share in a reasonable ratio of risk with people that genuinely want to invest in the sector. The private person should not bear the burden alone. That is what is happening in the oil sector. No one can say he is the sole owner of a rig. That is why government can decide not to renew your licence – because it has a share in it. It can withdraw it. The government can do same in the mining sector. ‘Buhari must be careful with foreign miners’ The new dawn In Nigerian mining sector Past govts behind the rots in  mining sector – Adie