The Area I Command of the Nigeria Customs Services, Port Harcourt, Rivers State says it raked in the sum of N15 billion as revenue into the Federal Government coffers between September and November 2018. It said that it was able to achieve that by stepping up its drive for maximum revenue collection and trade facilitation without compromising national security. While hitting its monthly revenue targets and creating enabling business environment in the quest to revive earlier dwindling fortunes of the port, the command is blocking all areas of possible revenue leakages, it said. The command, in a press release, disclosed that efforts by the Customs Area Controller, Mohammed Boyi Bande, to implement zero tolerance for smuggling and other infractions are paying off. According to the statement, it collected  N2,197,422,033.89 in September; N3,898,625,115.23 in October and N5,088,623,064.11 in November 2018. Oscar Ivara, the Customs spokesman, described the feat as a mark of productive and uncompromising leadership by his area controller. Ivara added that monthly target for the command is N3,820,678,150.01 while stating that his controller will continue to work for increased revenue, which is one of the policy focus of the Controller General of Customs, Col. Hameed Ali (rtd). He described the over N5bn monthly collection feat as unprecedented in the recent history of the command. He further stated that the command, through the leadership of the Area Controller has been transformed tremendously through regular consultations with relevant stakeholders and the promotion of inter-agency co-operation. The command’s operations are in full compliance with the Federal Government’s directives on the ease of doing business which has greatly reduced cargo clearance time, he also stated. The CPRO said he was optimistic that the command will surpass its 2018 revenue target as, according to him, the controller was focused on surpassing target and preventing deviance to rules guiding import and export in the Port Harcourt port. Onne Customs rakes N71.8bn revenue in 9 months CBN forex guideline affects Customs revenue target Tin Can port generates N31.9bn in 1 month