Troops fighting Boko Haram terrorists in the North-East, under the auspices of Operation Lafiya Dole, expressed mixed feelings as they celebrated Christmas with the Chief of Army Staff, Lieutenant General Tukur Buratai, and his Air Force counterpart, Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar. Lieutenant General Buratai and Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar served food to the soldiers and airmen at the warfront and ate with them. The action was to make them know that their sacrifices were recognised and they are loved by military authorities. Delwa, where the celebration took place, is 25 kilometers away from Maiduguri, the Borno State capital. It is regarded as the centre of Boko Haram insurgency. At the height of attacks, the community was completely destroyed and covered with rubbles. It was surrounded by massive trenches. When the advance party of the Chief of Army Staff arrived, the soldiers were seen seated and dressed in camouflage with their raffles and the table already set. Although the scene was not friendly, the soldiers looked calm when Buratai urged them not to be afraid of being killed or wounded. Addressing the soldiers, Lieutenant General Buratai said there were several elements who didn’t wish Nigeria well. According to him, such people create disaffection among officers and soldiers through false information and claims on the social media. He said the Nigerian Army would continue to do its best for soldiers, adding that he would not play with the welfare of troops. He further said the Nigerian Army had made significant sacrifices and progress in the fight against terrorism and insurgency in the country. He added that they were making concerted efforts to fish out the remnants of Boko Haram terrorists. It was lunch time when the soldiers were served with variety of dishes. When Daily Trust on Sunday spoke with the soldiers, some of them said they were happy for the gesture, but regretted that they could not celebrate with their families. Staff Segment Mohammed Bukar (not real name) said he would be happier if the necessary weapons to fight insurgents were provided. He was, however, happy that their sacrifices were appreciated. He noted that he had spent five years in Borno State, fighting the insurgents in Ngala and new Marte before he was redeployed to Delwa FOB. He said that if the Armed Forces had the right weapons, the battle would be won in a month. Some of their commanders who spoke to our correspondent, however, found it difficult to admit that they lack the adequate weapons to defeat the insurgents. Bukar further said that after Christmas celebration, the reality on ground would remain, as insurgents are getting stronger and becoming more deadly on a daily basis. He said the military authorities should do the needful so that they would win the war once and for all. Also speaking, Cpl. Muhammed Audu expressed satisfaction at the visit of the Chief of Army Staff, saying it would encourage and motivate them to continue fighting the terrorists. He noted that this year’s Christmas celebration was the best so far, adding that the gesture would further boost their morale. Master Warrant Officer Olalekan Adeyimi said they were very happy to see the Chief of Army Staff serve them food and drinks, an action he said was very unusual and historic. “I can assure you that we will play our own part to defeat the insurgents. My family will see me and they will be happy. This gesture is a good omen,’’ he said. Also, at the Christmas lunch organised by the Air Force for troops, the Chief of Air Staff, Sadique Abubakar urged them to continue to work together towards winning the war against terrorism in the North-East. He assured the troops of Federal Government’s commitment to their welfare. Abubakar thanked them for their efforts at the battleground and expressed hope that the war would soon be over. “I appreciate everyone of you for all the contributions you have made in the fight against insurgency. We will not lose focus until the war ends. While thanking God for keeping us alive for this year’s Christmas celebration, I want to thank you for being here for the Air Force. Celebrating Christmas with you shows that the service recognises and appreciates your daily sacrifices towards restoring total peace to the nation,’’ he said. In his remark, the commander of Air Task Force headquarters, Operation Lafiya Dole, Maiduguri, Air Vice Marshal James Goni, said the consistent visit of Air Marshal Sadique Abubakar to celebrate Christmas and Sallah with troops was always a morale booster. He added that the air chief had provided necessary facilities to make life comfortable in the theatre. “We can only reciprocate the gesture by absolute loyalty, first to the Force and Nigeria in general. I commend the men and personnel of the theatre for being able to make this year’s Christmas memorable,’’ he said. Also, a top military source who didn’t want his name mentioned, told our correspondent that one of the things affecting the fight against insurgents in the North-East was lack of adequate collaboration between Army and the Air Force due to battle of supremacy. He said that new strategy must be adopted to address increasing attacks on the northern part of Borno State. He added that service chiefs  should go back to the drawing board and come up with a new strategy to enable troops defeat Boko Haram terrorists and other forms of insecurity in the country.