The chairman of Colleges of Education Academic Staff Union (COEASU), Federal College of Education, Kano chapter, Malam Dauda Saidu explains why lecturers launched a general strike recently.  The labour dispute between COEASU and government has persisted in spite of some agreements. Why? The strike has a very long history. Sometime in 2017, we embarked on a nationwide strike and somehow we suspended it based on promises made by the Federal Government but up to the time we embarked on the just suspended strike, the government didn’t do anything serious on the promises made that saw the end of our strike in 2017. So we embarked on strike alongside the NLC when they called for a strike in respect of the new national minimum wage which the government failed to implement. And on the eve of the strike, our national officers called a press conference to inform Nigerians that we have a peculiar problem with the government that even if an agreement is reached between the government and NLC, we are not going back to the classroom until and unless the government does what is needful by attending to our grievances. The grievances are many but they do not have relationship with our personal benefits. Most of the grievances are aimed at improving the system for the benefit of Nigerians. First of all, there is the issue of Needs Assessment Report. In 2014, government conducted a Needs Assessment for all the tertiary institutions in the country and a report was presented to it in respect of that assessment with the view that it will release funds to implement the recommendations of the report. But the government didn’t do anything in respect of that report. Sometime in 2017, the government decided to get a review of the report made in 2014. The report was reviewed and submitted to it and up till today, we are patiently waiting for the government to respond by way of releasing funds so that the report could be implemented, but nothing is forthcoming in respect of that either. Again, last year, the government invited our leaders to negotiate the 2010 agreements signed with the national officers of our union but since the inauguration of that committee on the review of the 2010 agreement, nothing tangible has been done. They did not even call for meetings. That shows the government isn’t serious in the negotiations. The payment of salaries in some colleges has not been regular, especially state- owned colleges. You find lecturers spending 3, 4 and 5 months without salary. This is very inhumane. So the union decided to consider this as part of the reasons why we should go on strike. There is also this issue of ‘dual mode’ which seeks government to grant the COEs autonomy to award degrees independent of universities. There is a serious pressure on universities with regard to the issue of admission, as you know. You find that universities hardly admit 25 per cent of prospective applicants. Also, there is the Peculiar Academic Allowance (PAA). This PAA is something that distinguishes a lecturer from non-teaching staff in the COEs system. It is just 7 per cent of our basic salary. Now, when the consolidated salary took effect during the Obasanjo administration, there was nothing in place to take care of our peculiarities as teachers. As teachers, we embark on research, we go on conferences, we publish, I mean a lot of things differentiate us from non-teaching staff, but then there is no allowance given to us in respect of these additional expenses which we incur in the process of our research. So, the government assigned the various governing councils in the COEs to source for money through internally generated revenue and take care of this peculiar allowance. Now, what happened is, in most of the colleges, the college authorities were not financially strong to take care of the burden of this allowance, so it resulted in constant conflict between the management and unions in many colleges and a lot of arrears has accrued in many of the colleges. So our union decided to urge the government to build this allowance in our salaries. So this is part of our request when we went on strike. There is also something called outsource services. You know, during Obasanjo administration, our security personnel, labourers and messengers were laid off and the colleges took over the responsibility of sourcing for security personnel, labourers and messengers. This has caused the colleges great distress because they can no longer support the burden of security. They don’t have enough money to hire qualified security personnel to take care of security challenges in the campuses. That resulted in serious security challenges in almost all the institutions. So our union decided to request that government restores the employment of these security personnel and other workers that were laid off during Obasanjo administration, and it has been included in our requests to the government. Basically these are some if the major reasons why we embarked on strike. Most of these demands are said to have been resolved? None of the major demands was met. Like I told you, there was this issue of irregular payment of salaries, on which for now government is responding. The problem comes mostly in states owned colleges. Most of our colleagues in state owned colleges have had their outstanding salaries settled. But even some of the federal colleges have been experiencing what is called shortfall. If your salary is, for example, X-amount of naira, you get Y less than X-amount of money. That shortfall has been paid in all the colleges. Government has sent an executive bill to the National Assembly to amend the legislation to make sure that what we are asking for, that’s the dual mode, has been successfully achieved, and the bill has passed first and second hearing and a date has been fixed for public hearing. The government also accepted to take the burden of peculiar allowances and I think it has sent to the colleges demanding for the financial implication of the allowance for a complete year which was forwarded to the Federal Ministry of Finance and I think they are going to include it in the 2019 budget. What informed your decision to suspend the strike now? Recently, our national officers in Abuja called the Expanded National Executive Council that is a body comprising all chapter chairmen and secretaries, including the national officers. We met and evaluated the response of the Federal Government in relation to the requests we put forward and the meeting decided that the strike should be suspended. We are giving the government a grace period of seven weeks, because we are going to meet again in Abuja on the 29th of January to assess the seriousness of government in relation to the promises made. If the situation improves and we deem it appropriate to call off the strike, then we are going to tell Nigerians that we are calling off the strike. But for the time being, the strike has been suspended until 29th of January when we are going to take further necessary action. We have resumed all academic activities with immediate effect from the time the announcement of the suspension was made. Towards the end of Jonathan’s administration, some COEs were converted to degree awarding institutions, but when the Buhari administration came, that decision was reversed. Was that the dual mode you were talking about? No, dual mode was never granted by any government in the past. Because by our Act, the legislation that established COEs and the legislation that established the National Commission for Colleges of Education do not allow for running of degree programmes in our institutions, but then there are situations where you find some COEs running some degree programmes in affiliation with some universities. For instance, in our college, we run degree programmes in affiliation to ABU Zaria, and it has been happening for a very long time now. But if we are to run degree programmes independent of universities, then the laws establishing colleges of education must be repealed and amended. Recently, a splinter group emerged from the Academic Staff Union of Universities (ASUU), do you foresee such if the strike lingers? Well, I cannot speak about ASUU, but in COEASU we are one, we are intact, united and strong. No friction whatsoever. Our union is united. What is your hope at the end of the ultimatum given? Our hope is that the Federal Government would demonstrate sincerity of purpose by implementing all the agreements which we have reached before the end of our strike, so that the system will emerge stronger. Why lecturers take gov’t assurances unserious -Unionists Strike: How police dispersed protesting lecturers FG and ASUU, please reach a deal