Gunmen suspected to be Fulani herdsmen Sunday night killed about 15 people, leaving 24 others injured at Ungwan Pah II – Gwandara, Jema’a Local Government Area of Kaduna State Sunday night. It would be recalled that about five Fulani were killed last month at Gindin Dutse, close to the area. One of the injured persons, Peter Joshua, from Gwandara, who was being treated at the General Hospital, Kafanchan, told our correspondent that they started hearing gunshots around 8pm from the neighbouring Ungwan Pah. “When we were running for shelter, a bullet hit my hand before the police rescued us to Kafanchan General HospitaI. I saw many corpses on our way,” he said. Peter said there was no misunderstanding between them and the resident Fulani in Gwandara. Another eyewitness, Victoria Musa, said they were celebrating Christmas Carol when three unknown persons appeared with guns and instantly started firing at the crowd. As of the time of filing this report, five corpses were at the morgue of Kafanchan General Hospital; while 10 others were at Jagindi. At Kafanchan General Hospital, Vice Chairman, Jema’a Local Government, Micah Tanko Ngboni and the Senior Legislative Aid to the Southern Kaduna Senator, Joseph Major Baba, promised to make all the possible arrangements for quick burial of the victims. They appealed to the people of the area to remain calm, be law-abiding and wait for the government to take action as the security agencies were on top of the situation. When contacted, the spokesman of the state police command, Yakubu Sabo, confirmed the incident. Sabo, who said about 10 people were killed, added the state Police Commissioner, Ahmad Abdulrahman, had since ordered his men to fish out the perpetrators. He called on the people of the area to remain calm and continue their activities. Meanwhile, troops have been deployed to Ungwan Pa-Gwandara A statement yesterday from State Security Council said this was to further secure the area and provide the atmosphere for extensive investigation of the incident, and the apprehension and prosecution of the culprits. In the statement signed by Samuel Aruwan, spokesman of Governor Nasir El-Rufai, the governor warned that criminal elements in the state  must not be allowed to divide people and wantonly take lives. “The governor has sent a message of condolence to the community, expressing his deep sadness at the loss of lives and his sympathy for the victims and their families. “The government also urged that anybody with useful information on the attack to kindly contact the security agencies,” he stated. The governor also directed Jema’a local government council and the State Emergency Management Agency to take care of victims receiving medical attention and provide relief materials to the community. 10 die, many injured in Southern Kaduna attack – Police 37 killed in farmers, herders clash in Kaduna community 37 killed in fresh farmers, herders clash in Kajuru