The gubernatorial candidate of Green Party of Nigeria (GPN) in Adamawa State, Nuruddeen Nyako, has said incumbency factor will not save Governor Muhammadu Jibrilla from defeat next year. Speaking to Daily Trust yesterday, Nyako said the enormous good will his party enjoyed from Adamawa voters as well as growing disenchantment with the current APC government in the state gave him an upper hand in the battle for Dougirei Government House. “We have been in the struggle for good governance for quite a long time, people have the understanding that it is the time for us to take over the leadership. All groups and associations are behind us, seventy percent of youths are with us, so we are confident of victory in 2019”, he said. “The people in power have to allow a leveled playground,” he said. “I don’t think incumbency factor will work because the APC is divided while INEC, the police and other security agencies said they are ready to be unbiased,” he added. He commended the national leadership of his party for finding amicable solution to the misunderstanding that arose from the governorship primary election, saying he would collaborate with the state party executives and other stakeholders in his bid to become the next governor. Expressing hope in the ability of  INEC to organise credible elections in 2019, Nyako said Nigeria had made tremendous progress in democracy since return to civilian rule in 1999. He therefore commended the peace accord brokered by the INEC Resident Electoral Commissioner, Kasim Gaidam which led 29 governorship to make commitment for peaceful conduct of elections, calling on politicians to respect the terms of the agreement. “Every party has an issue, GPN is not an exception. We had our little disagreement which have been resolved. We contained the disagreement after  involving the national secretariat and the matter has been settled amicably. Democracy is an evolving phenomena, there are a lot achievements in these years without disruption. The assurances from President Buhari shows that it is going to be smooth,” he said. Impeachment: Adamawa APC stakeholders stand behind Nyako Adamawa people not with Nyako on memo - Dr Hong In Adamawa we don’t care if Nyako leaves PDP - Hong