Researchers and scientists under the aegis of the Nigerian Academy of Science (NAS) have called on the Federal Government to increase its investment in researches, saying there is a corollary between investment in researches and the nation’s economic prosperity. The scientists made the call at the announcement of Prof. Wasiu Lanre Adeyemo of the University of Lagos (Unilag), Dr. Emannuel Oluwadare Balogun of the Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria, and Prof. Temitayo Ogundiran of the University of Ibadan (UI) as the 2018 recipients of the prestigious NAS Gold Medal. While underscoring the importance of researches and the need for more commitment by both the government and the corporate sector in Nigeria, the Chairman of the NAS Science Prize Committee, Prof. Gabriel Ogunmola, said it had become expedient for Nigeria to invest more in researches if it hoped to confront squarely the myriad of challenges confronting it while also growing its economy. In a similar development, the Manufacturers Association of Nigeria (MAN) has charged the Federal Government to invest more in the manufacturing sector and further make it conducive for both local and foreign investors. The Director General of MAN, Segun Ajayi Kadiri, who said this at the weekend, lauded the effort of the present administration in its industrial revolution plan and the economic recovery and growth plan, adding that the sector needed more of such initiatives to thrive. Kadiri said the 2,500 members of MAN were constantly faced with the challenge of infrastructure which included power and transportation, difficulty at the port, multiplicity of levies and access to credit. “We are in continuous conversation with the government. They are doing their best but we always have more issues and we always expect them to do more,” he said. The DG said this in Lagos during the opening of the 6,600sqm new showroom in Oregun and customers’ reward party of Lifemate Nigeria Limited, a Chinese-owned furniture manufacturing company in Nigeria. How to develop manufacturing sector –RMRDC Fund education adequately, FG urged Prof. Turner Isoun: Tribute to a trail blazer at 80