The presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Atiku Abubakar, has said Nigeria must open a new chapter in its history to end terrorism in the North East and guarantee a peaceful territory that gives hope to all citizens. Atiku, in a New Year message, on Monday said there was the need for Nigerians to make changes from the top to the bottom to make Nigeria work effectively again. “We already have the vision, the vision of a nation that is a beacon of hope for the Black Race and the world at large; what we lack and what 2019 can provide is the leadership that has the capacity to translate that vision into reality. “In 2018, we became the world headquarters for extreme poverty; however, I am convinced that in 2019, if we chart a new course, we can become the world headquarters for hope and extreme devotion to the cause of lifting our people out of poverty. “We can chart a new course and open a new chapter that sees every Nigerian living in peace and prosperity with their neighbour. It can be the year when our youths finally get a job instead of being unfairly tagged as lazy. “With purposeful leadership, it can also be the year when we put an end to terrorism and usher in a golden age of peace. “2019 is as yet a blank page. As a nation, we must not settle for whatever it brings. Rather, we must take collective action, through our choices, in making it a year where we revive national hope, with visionary leadership that sees our economy and institutions working again as they did in our golden era,” Atiku said. The former Vice President added: “In 2019, Nigerians need a leadership that is 100% for 100% of Nigerians, 100% of the time. We have seen where division and sectionalism has led us to. Now let us try unity and patriotism. “Don’t lose heart and hope. Nigeria is no stranger to overcoming difficulties. In fact, we have an uncanny ability to perform our best when the worst is upon us. “I urge my fellow countrymen and women to remember how we became the first nation in the world to defeat and overcome the Wild Ebola Virus, when even First World nations were struggling with the scourge. “That resilience is domiciled in our national psyche and together we shall win forever. We shall win over forces of disunity. We shall win over forces of poverty and backwardness. “But more importantly, in 2019, I want Nigerians to know that it is possible to have a leadership that is compassionate and that this does not equate to weakness. A leadership that is bold but not domineering. A leadership that is intelligent, but not arrogant. “Indeed, that is the only type of leadership that can navigate the difficulties currently facing our dear nation and lead us to Unity and Faith, Peace and Progress, which are our national motto and which are the hope of all Nigerians.” 2019: Atiku advises Nigerians to elect visionary leaders Why Nigerians should reject Buhari's Next Level - Atiku group 2015: Buhari, Atiku, Tinubu should be ready to make sacrifices – Dr Hakeem Baba-Ahmed