The attention of the Standard Organization of Nigeria (SON) has be drawn to the increasing influx of imported substandard batteries to the country by the manufacturers and assemblers of automotive battery in the country. Speaking during the presentation of MAN Conformity Assessment Programme (MAN CAP) certificate to a manufacturer of automotive battery, Forgo Battery Limited in Ilorin on Tuesday, the managing director of the outfit, Joseph Offorjama, called for urgent intervention of the regulating agency to rid Nigerian market of fake batteries. Offorjama, who described the development as alarming, said that substandard and fake automotive batteries give no value to users and may force manufacturers to close shops. He said that the menace of substandard batteries was a major threat to battery manufacturers and assemblers, who he said added value to the nation’s economy through revenue generation, job creation and manufacturing of products which, he said, complied with laid down standard of the SON. “We see a serious threat because of the influx of substandard batteries into the country. Substandard products are a threat to the economy as people waste hard earned money to buy these products. Some of us that are playing by the rules are being pushed to close shop soon”, he said. He also said the manufacturers of automotive battery had written letter to notify the SON, adding that they were waiting for prompt action from the regulating agency to rid Nigerian market of fake batteries through raid among other measures. The member of the Manufacturer Association of Nigeria (MAN) commended SON for ensuring that products manufactured in Nigeria compete in quality with best brands in the world, saying that it should sustain its resolve to make manufacturers adopt best practices and their products comply with Nigeria Industrial Standard (NIS). Also speaking, Kwara state director of Standards Organisation of Nigeria (SON), Esther Okon, said the use of locally manufactured goods would prevent the country from being used as a dumping ground, adding that consumers’ confidence would be boosted. “It will also guide against youth unemployment as these companies serve as employers of labour”, she said. Reacting to the alarm raised by the battery manufacturers, the SON director said that the director general of SON was looking deeply into the matter, adding that he would brief Nigerians on it soon. “The four brands of 14 products certified have met with NIS. The presentation of the certificate is to tell the consumers that these products are fit for public use”, he said. Made in Nigeria automotive batteries debut market Substandard products take over Aba markets - SON Still on substandard imported products