As part of efforts to reposition the education sector in the Federal Capital Territory, the Education Secretariat Management Committee has recommended an early budgeting cycle with full involvement of the Department of Policy Planning, Research and Statistics. The FCT Education Secretariat also affirmed that the administration will in 2019 adopt new measures to make the education sector more effective. To demonstrate the new steps, the education secretariat at its just concluded two days retreat of its management committee, recommended for a condition survey of its facilities with a view to developing a Needs Assessment that will drive its budget projections. The committee also tasked the FCT Department of Policy, Planning Research and Statistics on the production of cost of training a child in the Federal Capital Territory. In a communiqué signed by the assistant director in charge of Information at the secretariat, Mr Tony Ogunleye, he said the Department of Quality Assurance has been directed to enforce the Guidelines on the Establishment and Operations of Educational Institutions in the territory. It explained that no school should start operating before registration with the department, adding that boards and departments in the Education Secretariat should work harder at integrating and collaboration in the discharge of their mandates. According to the communiqué, the secretariat has recommended for a bi-annual retreat in its calendar of activities, with intensified efforts on the orientation of newly employed teachers. The members also called for a quarterly report on the progress and challenges to management. “Boards and departments in charge of students’ admission are advised to devise means of ensuring that only children within the approved age specifications are admitted into FCT schools,” the communiqué also stressed. The retreat, which was held under the leadership of the secretary, Dr. Bala Liman, pledged the secretariat’s commitment to completing all on-going projects at the permanent site of FCT College of Education Zuba to facilitate movement to the site. FCTA calls for re-positioning of education sector Education secretariat warns schools against admission of under-aged children Snakes, weeds take over Abuja Tech University