Preparations for Christmas are in top gear in Kaduna as many parts of the state are in a festive mood. Our correspondents observed heavy traffic congestions in the routes leading into the state capital like the Abuja Junction to Command Junction, Kawo and Mando areas as well as Sabon Tasha to Ungwan Television where motorists on getting to the town spend hours before getting to their destinations. From Thursday, there has been a lull in official activities as people close early to rush to the markets. Hotels,  restaurants, night clubs and other relaxation spots are however having a boom as people throng to such places in early celebration. Areas like Barnawa and Narayi, Sabon Tasha and Ungwan Pama have received massive influx of people as streets within those areas have become stocked with heavy traffic. Our correspondent also observed that while there is an influx of people into the state capital, thousands others are leaving to other parts of the country. When our correspondent visited the Television Motor Park, hundreds of passengers were seen stranded as there were not enough vehicles to take them. On Saturday, all the vehicles conveying people to places like Jos, Lafia and the southern parts of the state had left  and by 2:00 p.m. many passengers  were still waiting and hoping that the vehicles  that left would return to convey them. A lady who gave her name as Stella told our correspondent that she was at the park from 11:00 am and had been waiting to catch a vehicle since then . “They told that some of the cars that went to Jos will come back and go again because Jos is not that far, so we are waiting,” she said. The situation was almost the same at the Kawo park as people struggled to get vehicles. But surprisingly, transporters did not hike the fares as is the practice in the past. Our corespondent learnt that this is because there is enough fuel at filling stations in and outside the metropolis. The situation is also upbeat at the markets as people troop in to buy mainly food stuff and clothes. Our correspondent also reports that there is no hike in the prices of goods in the markets. Jafaru Madobi a trader at the Mogadishu market confirmed that there was no price increase this year. “Prices have remained the same because we didn’t increase this year. For instance pack of Maggi costs N380, a gallon of palm oil costs N2,200  and  a galllon of vegetable oil is N2,300. “A plastic bucket of tomatoes now sells at N500 while that of pepper is N600. “We didn’t increase price but yet we have low patronage because I know of people that buy two chickens every year but this time around can only afford a chicken,” he said. A customer, who gave his name as Mr Alex, however, told Arewa Trust that there was an increase in the price of some comodities. “We are used to traders jacking up prices every year during festive period.  A cup of egusi that I used to buy N150 now costs N250.  The traders always see this period as an opportunity to make money,” he said.  Kaduna tense as residents observe curfew Police, military take over Abuja, Kaduna Houses destroyed in Kaduna flood