Chief John Odigie-Oyegun is the immediate past national chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC). In this interview, the Edo State-born politician speaks on 2019 campaigns, his support for President Muhammadu Buhari’s re-election bid and the need for cohesion in the ruling party. Excerpts:  As the 2019 general elections draw nearer, what are your thoughts on the political atmosphere? I am going to keep away from politics of controversy, of who is right and who is wrong. As an elder statesman, I am going to make an appeal first on the general situation. There is need for a lot more decorum; an appeal to our leaders to keep away from distractions and non-issues. Social media today is full of such terrible distractions, insults and clear falsehood. This scenario has become the main issue. Whereas these are absolute distractions – whether people have certificates or not, whether they went to school or not, and so many other manufactured stories on prominent individuals. It looks as if the pastime now is the search for scandals without any attempt to build up issues to debate alternative approaches, views and formulations. We all know the problems of the country – who has answers to these problems? These are the issues we need to try to address. And as far as my own party is concerned, I have only one appeal that there should be peace and every effort should be made to establish peace such that we would approach the elections with a united front; a united party rallying around a united programme of action. There is no question that there is disputation within the party. And I am very glad that peace teams have been sent out and I was able to run into one of these teams while I was in personal engagements in the South East. And it is my prayer that they achieve the goal for which they have been set up. For peace to happen, every side must be ready and willing to take and to give. There must be the willingness of compromise that will bring the party back together again – the kind of fighting mood that we need to be in to confront the elections in February next year which are bound to be challenging, given the  state of the nation. That is all I will have to say. How is your relationship with Mr President? My attachment to the president started way back when he was military president. I think outside Murtala Muhammed, Buhari was the first to appreciate the need for disciplined society, the need for basic ethics both in our business undertakings and dealings with international communities as well as the need for basic morality; the need for our people as a society to know the difference between right and wrong. That is a challenge we still face as a people. It isn’t the challenge of brick and mortar: that’s how many kilometers of roads you have built or how many schools you have renovated. It is the challenge of reorienting the basic morality of us all as Nigerians. Learning to do things properly, learning to accept due process, learning to accept that might is not necessarily right. What I was told about him and what I have heard up to today, there is absolutely no reason to change that impression of him. What he needs is our genuine support. What he needs are men and women of passion who will help bring to fruition the corrective measures he has put in place and is still pursuing. So, my support, apart from that original empathy with him over many years, when you look around the field in any case today, both from his achievements and considering also the field, I consider him by far the best person we have for president in the next four years. So, in whatever capacity he has my support and I will continue to make that available in whatever manner that is necessary to enhance his potential for victory. Can you confirm the online stories that you are planning to leave the APC? You have to totally ignore that kite being flown. Maybe it’s an opportunity to emphasise that I have been part of the thinking years before the APC was formed. I was among those who brought the APC, a party that I also nurtured into fruition. I was basically an originator. I have been in opposition. But we in the opposition, we truly want to present our nation with democratic choice. We need to build a party that can be on comparable level of acceptability to the Nigerian public. I am not among those who keep saying ‘well, we don’t like them, but what’s the choice’. Having been, so to speak, an originator, in that process, it would be difficult to see myself anywhere. Yes, the party has issues. But you don’t run away because you are facing difficulties. We maintain the direction which we have set for ourselves and difficulties are meant to be addressed and sorted out so that the party does not lose its strength, its essence and message that brought it into being. That is critical. The problems come if a party stands in danger of losing its bearings in those respects. Of course, that is another issue altogether. But I am in APC and I don’t see myself anywhere else. You definitely may not be pleased with happenings in your party today. And many people say the genesis of the problem is the process by which its candidates were selected for the election. We hear governors saying they will support the president’s re-election in their own states and support different candidates in the same states. What will you say about this? I can say one thing for sure, I am not happy with the state of peace or instability in the party. I don’t think of a single person today who is happy about that. But like I said, there are peace missions that have been formed all over the country. At this point, it would be inopportune for me to start saying ‘oh things went badly’. As an elder statesman, let’s not start passing my own personal judgment when there is a team out there trying to broker peace. I won’t be helping with the situation. What we require is peace and I pray that God gives the team the wisdom that is required to work out the settlement that will bring the party back into strong political fighting shape. I have read that the leaders in South East have endorsed the PDP presidential candidate. Likewise in the South West. From your experience, do you see this affecting the outcome of the presidential election in 2019? I don’t think it does. There is one mistake our leaders continue to make, that’s to underestimate the voting public like farmers, market women, and labourers. These people know what is happening in the society and they don’t need to depend on anybody in particular, except die-in-the-wood party people like us and the rest of it. So, if a church says the congregation should vote for party X, everybody would just say yes and go home. They would still vote for whomsoever they have decided to vote for. That is the situation we are in in this country. That is why I emphasised the issue-based politics. The average Nigerian is aching, he knows you cannot solve all his problems. But he wants to be sure that you are going to make a good trial. And he wants to have hope that this man he is going to vote for, all things being equal, he is likely going to start the process of improvement to his personal circumstances so that he has hope for the future, if not for himself for his children. That is what motivates the average Nigerian. It is not because some organisations adopt X. We are going to have a lot more adoptions. I expect some presidential candidates to withdraw until 30 political parties support candidate X. You know the horse trading will start soon and you will get more absurd declarations. That is part of our politics and some party leaders do it for their own personal reasons. But it is at a cost to them because they are underestimating the voting public. What is your message for politicians that see politics as a do-or-die affair; and especially for the youth to avoid violence during and after the elections? I have read a lot about fears of violence. But I must confess to you that personally they are highly exaggerated. We are passing through the most difficult times now. I have been in the process towards 2019.  The campaigns will not hopefully provide the opportunity for different groups to clash at any time. So, my message is, the youth must know what is in their interest. It is interesting you have raised that. It shows you the kind of difficulty we have as a people and as a nation. Most of our political parties are youth-oriented. But I don’t think any of them has been able to come together and say let’s take one of us as the candidate. These are youthful parties formed by youth. Why are they unable to do it? Are they in politics to rescue themselves or to change the direction of events or what? I would have been the happiest person if 20 parties with youthful candidates are able to sit together and say we are adopting one of us and we are voting for X. Then, I know the youth are very serious. They said we should retire. Yes, we are ready to retire. But are they ready to take over? Why should we have 91 political parties mainly led by the youth? It shows that they too do not appreciate the predicament and work that they need to do to convince the older ones that they are ready for leadership. That is my message to them. They cannot do so by being part of any violent groups to get a change that will last them just few weeks and we are all  back to square one. Our youth are getting a lot of things wrong. I fail to feel strongly the way they have presented themselves as we now move towards 2019.  Atiku, Tinubu  consider plan ‘B’ I can’t quit APC – Oyegun I’m yet to recover from June 12 struggle – Oyegun