A four year-old-girl has been declared missing in Gwagwa, an Abuja suburb, few kilometres away from Jabi. The girl was discovered missing few days after Destiny, 3, was also kidnapped in Tungan Maje. The girl, Fatimah, was said to be playing with her friends at about 8pm at her mother’s shop near the chief’s palace when she went missing penultimate Friday. The mother, Kuburat Abdulateef, said after she finished cooking yam and frying eggs for the girl and her siblings, she (Fatimah) was nowhere to be found to eat her food. “She was coming in to pick pieces of cooked yam for her friends while I was frying the eggs. Then, when the eggs were about to be ready, she gave me the plate to put them in and she returned to play. “In less than five minutes, I could not hear their voices again so I called all of them in. But she was not with her siblings,” the worried mother said. The woman, who spoke in Yoruba language, said she reported her daughter missing at the chief’s palace and the police station same night. The girl’s father, Abdulateef Ibrahim, said he could not sleep for about two days after the incident. “I just returned from work and was resting at home, waiting for them to return so that I give them what I got for them when I was told she could not be found. Since that night, I have not rested. I have searched everywhere and reported to almost everyone. I searched all cars leaving the community that midnight until daybreak,” he said. Ibrahim, a taxi driver, said the case was reported at the police station and a statement was obtained by the officers after 24 hours. He said the incident has left his wife and family shattered, adding that Fatimah, his fourth child, was about to celebrate her fourth birthday when she was allegedly kidnapped. He lamented that there are several cases of missing children in the community. The Gwagwa Divisional Police Officer, CSP Etim Inyang, said he was not authorised to talk on the case as he directed our reporter to the FCT Command Public Relations Officer.