Funmi Ekundayo is the Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer of STL Trustees Ltd, a corporate trust company in Nigeria. In this interview, she speaks on a wide range of industry issues, including the Islamic bond, sukuk. How do corporate trustees contribute to the nation’s economic development? Trustees play critical roles in business transactions. What every investor requires is peace of mind. Anyone that is parting with value – whether you are a bank that wants to lend to a corporate entity for any reason whatsoever – wants to be sure that the money will be repaid with interest and as agreed. So, I would say that we are the gate watchers. We protect investors; we create comfort to all parties on a commercial transaction. Most credit transactions with banks are not complete without a trustee because the trustee provides the requisite comfort to both the bank which is lending the money and the borrower that the terms of their agreement will be fully complied with. And who monitors the terms? It is the trustee. With that, a financial provider in a transaction feels secure with the fact that a trustee will monitor all the obligations and ensure that all the terms of the obligations are complied with from the beginning to the end of the transaction and everybody is happy. So it is a win-win situation. And what makes an economy grow? Trade; ability to invest and conducive business environment. So if you want to look at it from that perspective, trustees help to facilitate that. So coming to bond trusteeship which is also a very significant part of the role we play as a trustee, Nigeria is a frontier economy, which means that we still have a lot of infrastructural gaps. Whether you look at it from the federal or state governments perspective, there is a wide deficit gap to be filled. Now, what do most states do? They come into the capital market to raise capital. We call it debt capital or the bond.  For them to raise those bonds, investors will have to part with their own money so that the states can have instant cash to carry out long-term infrastructural projects. When they carry out those projects, the country is better for it. Even, the states can also increase their internally generated revenue (IGR) through that process. However, don’t forget that some people have parted with their own capital ab initio and these people need to be paid back. So all of the interests of the investors is put in one person and that is the trustee. The trustee ensures that the mode of repayment is secure. For states mostly, they have their FAAC. Within a span of about two decades of operation, STL Trustees has grown significantly in the Nigerian corporate trust industry. What factors do you think set you apart from other? At STL Trustees, our core values are integrity, professionalism, commitment and innovation and these values ensure that in dealing with clients, whether individual or corporate, we strive to always deliver trust solutions that are guaranteed to meet their needs on a continuously satisfactory basis. Also, because we operate in an industry that is extremely dynamic, we train and retrain ourselves towards ensuring that we continuously deliver quality and innovative services with the required speed to excite our clients. STL Trustees is a delegate trustee to the first Sukuk issuance in Nigeria, the State of Osun Sukuk Al-Ijara which was issued by the government of the State of Osun to finance the construction of modern elementary, middle and high schools in the state. We are also a delegate trustee to the first sovereign Sukuk issued in Nigeria, the N100bn FGN Road Sukuk 1 which was issued by the Federal Government to fund the construction and rehabilitation of some roads across the six geo-political zones in the country. Essentially, our ability to anticipate, meet and surpass the needs of our clients is among the factors that set us apart. Recently STL Trustees won ‘The Trustees’ Firm of the Year’ and you, the company’s CEO, also won ‘The Trustees’ CEO of the Year 2018 during the recent 4th Nigeria Finance Innovation Awards (NFIA). Can you tell us more about the awards and what it means to STL Trustees? Well, according to the organisers, the awards recognize leading finance organizations, finance executives and teams whose outstanding leadership practices have raised the standards of accountability within the profession and supported the nation’s economic growth. So, we believe the recognition is a testament of our commitment and ability to help our clients achieve their plans and ambitions. The awards are dedicated to them; our clients, partners and other stakeholders. We couldn’t have done it without them. Don’t forget that STL Trustees also emerged last year as the ‘Non-Interest Trustees of the Year 2017’ during the 3rd African International Conference on Islamic Finance organised by the Metropolitan Skills Limited in conjunction with the Islamic Finance Council and the Islamic Finance Institute of Southern Africa. However for us at STL Trustees, our main award is our clients’ trust in us. What are some of the products on offer at STL Trustees? In order to simplify the concept of trusteeship for our customers and make same readily available no matter an individual’s income level, we have a bouquet of customized retail products tailored to meet the needs of individuals across a broader spectrum. These products are: Controlling you Retirement Voluntarily (STL CRV). STL CRV is a savings product which has been designed for income earners who are mindful of preparing ahead for post-retirement from paid employment, in addition to the mandatory Pension Contributions under the law as well as self-employed individuals who want to secure their future, when they would be less active and earn lower income. There is also STL Target which is specifically designed for persons who would wish to set aside some funds to meet a particular need at some determinate time in the future. The advantage of this product is that it simplifies savings for events by the client and ensures that the funds are available for the required purpose.  ‘Trustees can put a stop to estate disputes’ NSE to compensate investors with N42.2m under IPF Stanbic IBTC Trustees educating people to have a will, estate plan – Max-Gbinije