The ongoing 4-day warning strike by the staff of the National Assembly may disrupt President Muhammadu Buhari’s 2019 budget presentation before the federal legislature tomorrow, Daily Trust reports. Buhari had last week requested the two chambers of the National Assembly to allow him to present the budget proposal tomorrow, being December 19. But that is being threatened by the warning strike. The National Assembly workers, under the platform of the Parliamentary Staff Association of Nigeria (PASAN), made good their resolve to embark on the warning strike yesterday, a decision they took last Friday. In their hundreds, the PASAN members blocked all the entrances to the National Assembly, preventing legislators and top management staff as well as every other person from gaining ‎access into the complex. They grounded all activities in the federal legislature building even as they halted power and water supplies to the building. Our correspondent reports that the workers stormed the National Assembly gate very early in the morning, where they positioned themselves to prevent people from entering. The management was also forced to have an emergency meeting outside the National Assembly yesterday, it was learned. Some of the staff called for the resignation of the Clerk to the National Assembly (CNA), Mohammed Sani-Omolori. A fortnight ago, the PASAN members picketed the National Assembly, where they prevented the 109 senators and the 360 ‎members of the House of Representatives from sitting at plenary. Daily Trust gathered yesterday that the leadership of the two chambers headed by Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara have intervened in the matter but no definite solution was reached at the time of filing this report. It was learnt that the two chambers through their various committees had between Thursday and Friday engaged the Minister of Finance Zainab Ahmed over the alleged poor releases to the National Assembly. But the minister reportedly told them that the ministry has made up to 83 percent of releases to the National Assembly, being under the first line charge. However, it was learnt that the financial demands of the workers would be met any time from January. In response to the lone demand of the workers from the National Assembly leadership, Senate President Bukola Saraki has approved the names of 12 nominees into the National Assembly Service Commission (NASC). Based on the resolutions they reached weeks ago, the parliamentary workers came up with a communique, in which they enumerated their grievances and stated their conditions. In its‎ reaction, the management through Sani-Omolori, said the poor releases of the 2018 budget made it impossible for them to meet up with the payment of the agreed 28 percent increment. He said it was unrealistic and non-feasible to pay without funding from the federation account. Assembly staff begin warning strike tomorrow Just in: Workers' strike paralyses National Assembly National Assembly Clerk urges staff not to embark on strike