Mariga and Agwara local government areas of Niger state are soon to enjoy electricity through the national grid about 27 years after their creation. Mariga is the second largest local government area of Niger state and also belived to be the commercial nerve center of the northern part of the state. In an interview with our correspondent in Minna, the Commissioner for Works and Infrastructure, Alhaji Ibrahim Balarabe said the electrification of the two local government areas was among the federal government’s abandoned projects in the state. He said the current All Progressives Congress (APC)-led administration,  in view of  its pact with the people to alleviate their sufferings, decided to take on the projects by approving the sum of 536,944,754 naira to connect the two local government headquarters with 33KVA direct line to the national grid after decades of abandonment. He explained that the projects would connect from Kasuwan Garba to Bangi, the headquarters of Mariga local government, while the other is from New Bussa in Borgu local government to Agwara, the headquarters of Agwara local government area respectively. The Commissioner was optimistic that the completion of the projects at Bangi and Agwara, the headquarters of Mariga and Agwara respectively would have added value to the people and boost their economic activities. He regretted that the two local governments remained the only councils in Nigeria that were not connected to the national grid, despite Agwara’s proximity to Kanji Dam. According to him work on the two the projects, which was awarded in 2016, are nearing completion. In the same vein, the Commissioner said several communities in Katcha Local Government Area of the state have been electrified by the administration through its rural electrification programme, in addition to many other projects initiated through offgrid power supply amongst others. Among the solar-powered communities according to him is Tunga-Jika in Magama Local Government Area which he noted, currently enjoys 24-hour electricity.  4 die, 2 injured in  Niger mining pit collapse World Bank, Niger govt invest $60m in rural roads 2nd term: Niger North APC endorses Gov Bello