Amira Jamal Arabi is the second daughter of Hajiya Aishatu Jibril Dukku, a former Minister of State for Education under the late President Umaru Musa Yar’auda administration and presently a member of the House of Representatives representing Dukku/Nafada Federal Constituency of Gombe State. Here, she talks about life with her mum, her character and more. Excerpts: Daily Trust: How would you describe your mother? Amira Jamal Arabi: Mama Shatu, as she is fondly called, is the super ideal woman. She is my mentor, my role model. I admire the way she pursues her goals in life without getting tired. She has a big heart and accommodates everybody. Whether you are related to her or not, you can benefit as much from her. DT: What was your relationship with her like while growing up? Amira: She was a friend as well as an advisor. But she was strict. I still remember when I was very little, whenever I was misbehaving and my aunty said, I would tell Mama, that would be the end of it. In fact, she is more of a disciplinarian than a pampering mother. She beat me several times when I reached the barrier. Nevertheless, I was very close to her when I was young. In fact, my elder sister used to be surprised that I talked with my mum about my boyfriend and said, ‘are you insane? Why would you be telling mama about your boyfriend?’ DT: What childhood memories about her come readily to mind? Amira: There are quite a lot. But I remember vividly when I used to accompany her to the office, when she was at the Local Government Area secretariat. I used to go with my lunch box containing eggs and other stuff. I always looked forward to accompanying her because it meant I will have things I enjoyed more in my lunch box. DT: At what point in your life did you realise your mother is a well-known person? Amira: She has always been popular, however, there is one major event that really touched my life. I was doing my NYSC when, just a month to finish my Primary Assignment, my husband was transferred to Abuja and I had to follow him immediately. Then there was a new state coordinator who was very strict and I packed my bag and decided to go and seek for permission. My plan was, if he declined my request, I would stay until the month ends. At the office I met someone who knew my mother, then she was the Minister of State for Education, and he decided to take me in to see the coordinator. When I was introduced, the man stood up and smiled. He told me that he will never forget what my mother did for him when she was the principal at the Federal Government Girls College (FGGC), Bajoga. He narrated how she treated him nicely like her own son when he went there for an assignment. So, he added that assisting me was the least he could do for her. That was a kind of wakeup call for me. DT: What misconception about her would you like to correct? Amira: People have the misconception that all politicians pamper and lavish their children with money. For instance, when people realised I was her daughter on my first day at work, they pulled away thinking I was pompous. I had to tell them that is not the way my mother is. Another misconception, especially in the north is when people think that because she is a woman she cannot achieve as much as a man. I want them to know that she is an exceptional and a super woman. She prays a lot and whenever she sets a goal, she achieves it. DT: What easily upsets her? Amira: She doesn’t like indiscipline. I remember when we were young and my friends came visiting. If we did something wrong, she would discipline us not minding that some were not her own children. My sister happened to be a student at the FGGC Bajoga when she was the principal there. She made a rule that if there are offenders and my sister is among them, their punishment would be severe. DT: Being a politician who was once a teacher, what other profession do you think she would have excelled at? Amira: I think she would have been an Islamic preacher (Laughs). I used to joke with her that whenever she is tired of politics, she should start conducting Tafsir, and jokingly add that I will be reciting the Qur’an while she gives the exegesis. DT: Which of her qualities would you say you have imbibed? Amira: I am hoping that by the time I reach where she is now or get to her age, I will imbibe all her qualities because I don’t think there is anything about her character that I want to throw aside. DT: You studied Accountancy in the university. Did she have any influence in your choice? Amira: She didn’t choose the course for me. She never tried to influence what we studied, but only encouraged us to do what we are good at. DT: When you are with her these days, what is your usual line of discussion? Amira: I don’t normally discuss politics with her, unless when she has something she wants to talk about and I will say my own piece. I used to tell her that politics is not for me because I cannot take all the negatives that politicians usually take. So, whenever we are together, we just talk about the family, my siblings and other stuff like that. These days, we don’t usually have enough time to discuss, but mainly talk on phone. I have more time with her when I travel to Abuja than when I am in Gombe. Dukku set to run for APC Reps ticket in Gombe My mum was once  a singer, actress  – Jackie Bent My mum would’ve made a great psychologist  – Yashua Alkali