President Muhammadu Buhari has just rejected the Amendment made to the Electoral Act by the National Assembly. This is the third time that the President would be rejecting the fresh amendments made to the Electoral act by the National Assembly. Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly (Senate) Ita Enang told State House Reporters this afternoon. “President Muhammadu Buhari has taken decision on Electoral Act Amendment bill 2018. In accordance with his power under the 1999 Constitution and has communicated that decision to the Senate and House of Representatives in accordance with the law,” he said. Enang when asked whether the bill was assented or rejected, he said “the president has taken a decision in a accordance with the powers vested in him according to the constitution. And by convention that decision contained in the communication can only be revealed by the person to whom that decision is addressed. But the electoral bill has left Mr. President because he has taken a decision and has remitted it back.” Asked for the second time, Enang said, “Thank You very much but this is all the law allows me to say by convention. Mr. President has sent that communication to the National Assembly.” On why the the bill was returned to Nation Assembly, he said, “the president has communicated his decision to the National Assembly and that is what it is now.” Again, President Buhari has also assented to National Open University Amendment Act, which allows the National Open University to operate as all other universities, having the same power and functions and the same administrative structures eliminating possible discrimination as some use to want to have on its products and programmes. It has also allowed the establishment of some centers to be called study centers and given conditions for the establishment of such study centers. Breaking: Again, Buhari declines assent to Electoral Act Why I rejected amendment to electoral act again – Buhari Buhari receives Electoral Act for assent