Unknown gunmen on Friday night murdered Hon Deji Akeredolu, the councillor of Ward 9 in the Ado-Ekiti local government area of Ekiti State. Akeredolu was an aide to Mr Deji Ogunsakin, the running mate of the Peoples Democratic Party’s governorship candidate in the July 14, 2018 governorship election in Ekiti State, Professor Kolapo Olusola. The father of the deceased, 72-year-old Pa Jacob Akeredolu, a retiree, told journalists at his residence at the Bojuri area of Ado Ekiti yesterday that the late aide had been buried on Saturday. According to the devastated father, Akeredolu was his second son and “bread winner of the extended family”, adding that after his son had been certified dead at the hospital, policemen from the Okeila Division in Ado Ekiti brought the remains to his house for burial. He said, “Deji was an easy-going, kind-hearted and lovely son. I don’t know why this should happen.” The former deputy governorship candidate, Mr Deji Ogunsakin, said in a telephone chat with Daily Trust that the incident occurred about 10pm at the Onala area of Ado Ekiti. Ogunsakin, who decried the security situation in the state, said, “Within a week, four different killings of innocent people by bandits had occurred. Another still happened in Ikere-Ekiti. The state governor, Kayode Fayemi, should ensure the situation is tackled. “Deji was a man of many parts. Trained in tailoring, he recently informed me he has set up a fashion house to engage his wife and himself. He didn’t deserve such a painful death.” However, the Police Public Relations Officer in the state police command, Deputy Superintendent Caleb Ikechukwu, said that he had not been properly briefed on the incident. Ikechukwu said, “I am not telling you that I am not aware, but I am yet to be properly briefed.” The deceased was among those suspended recently by the Ekiti State House of Assembly. Fayemi a disappointment — PDP dep gov’ship candidate Ekiti poll: PDP candidate, Olusola,  files petition against Fayemi''s victory Gunmen kidnap Senator Arise, demand N80m ransom