About 1,500 graduating students at Abeokuta Study Centre of the National Open University (NOUN) are crying foul over non-release of some of their results, and express fear that the development may delay their graduation. Speaking with Daily Trust in Abeokuta, the affected students said apart from “trapped” results of courses they undertook across all departments, scores of the various projects were nowhere to be found. They said if the situation persists, their names may not be on the graduating list to be released early next year. Those who spoke with our correspondent did so on condition of anonymity for fear of backlash, saying that the school had directed all affected students to write to the faculty officers, detailing their names and courses affected. They expressed dismay that nothing has been done to arrest the situation rather the institution further asked them to pay a sum of N20,000 to re-mark each course withheld. They students disclosed that in spite of receiving the details more than a month ago, the school is yet to address the situation and that feelers have it that compilation of final graduation will be released soon. They further lamented that the withheld results have caused a negative twist in the academic pursuits of over 4,000 students nationwide in the institute, who intend to further their studies. Responding, a top member of the management at the study centre said the “crisis is not peculiar to Abeokuta Centre, but management is on top of the situation.” “The management is leaving no stone unturned to address most especially those who have genuine cases. No management will want its students to suffer unjustifiably,” he said. On the alleged extortion of N20,000 for re-mark, he said the institution has a policy on re-mark like every other institution in the country.  Graduation Policy:  Open University Post graduate students threaten mass protest NOUN’s best graduating student: ‘I was once a drop-out’ We are expanding distance learning - Prof. Vincent Tenebe