The chief of Jiwa, Alhaji Idris Musa, has tasked parents on the need to educate their children. The traditional ruler who was speaking at the 70th anniversary of the Local Education Authority Primary School in Jiwa said the school had contributed to the development of the community by producing several prominent personalities including the chairman of Abuja Area Council, Abdullahi Adamu Candido. “This school has produced a chairman, several directors and a member of the House of Representatives. It has yielded so many great people. It is a great lesson for parents that they should take care of their children and ensure they go to school,” he said. While commending the school’s old boys association for organising the event, he also gave the document establishing the school to the group, adding that it would guide their activities. In his remarks, the AMAC chairman, Abdullahi Adamu Candido, said the association would work to consolidate government’s effort by providing some of the needs of the school. “I have suggested that as old boys we should go to the school and take a look at the facility and see how best we can enrich the school. This school has produced so many eminent Nigerians,” he said. “Let me appreciate God for making it possible, it is more of a reunion and we are also looking at how we can also give back to the school. I became active in the last five years but the association has been on since the last 15 years,” he said. Alhaji Aliyu Jatau that attended the school in 1945 commended the association for the noble effort, adding that the school helped him achieved more in life. The retired military officer said education has changed unlike what was obtainable in his days. “In our days teachers beat pupils but nowadays teachers can’t beat pupils. I got to know this after my retirement as I was a security officer in a secondary school. The principal beat someone and the father came asking why they beat his child. In our own time it was not like that,” he said. FCT stakeholders unite against hate speeches AMAC microfinance bank to be ready in April Tunga Kwaso pupils trek 5km to school