The Peoples Democratic Party Presidential Campaign Organisation (PPCO) has challenged President Muhammadu Buhari to explain to its presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar and Nigerians how he “soiled his hands in the alleged corrupt acquisition of Etisalat Nigeria and Keystone Bank Plc, worth N1.032 trillion. The PPCO demanded that Buhari should come out clean on how his family members got the sum of N1.032 trillion for such investment before going ahead with his re-election campaign. Addressing a press conference, yesterday, in Abuja, the spokesman of PPCO who doubles as the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Mr. Kola Ologbondiyan, argued that the issue directly bothered on Buhari’s integrity both as a person and the exalted office of the President of Nigeria and must be clarified. “Nigerians are not interested in mere rhetoric or attempts by the Buhari Presidency to divert public attention from the issue at hand, but demand that President Buhari, who hitherto prides himself as Mr. Integrity, squarely addresses these grave issues in person. “This is not an issue for President Buhari’s aides to howl about in the media, it touches directly on his person, particularly his perception as a symbol of the talakawas. He must therefore address them on this issue. “It is a norm that he who comes to equity must come with clean hands. President Buhari and his family members have entangled themselves in corruption. Mr. President’s hands can no longer be said to be clean, until he proves otherwise. “The PPCO wants Nigerians and the whole world to note that President Buhari’s refusal to personally address this matter means consent. “We, therefore, dare President Buhari to put forth a denial on this disclosure by our candidate and we will spare no thoughts in furnishing the public with details of his corrupt activities within and outside Nigeria,” the spokesman said. INEC, Presidency plotting to rig through illegal polling centres in Chad, Niger - PDP INEC, presidency plotting to rig through illegal polling centres in Chad, Niger — PDP Bury your 2023 presidential ambition, PDP tells Osinbajo