Imo State Governor, Rochas Okorocha, and the Daniel Nwafor-led state executive council of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) were conspicuously absent as the party flagged off its governorship campaigns in Owerri on Friday. Neither Okorocha nor Nwafor gave reasons for their absence and they did not send any representative. Speaking on the occasion, the National Chairman of the APC, Comrade  Adams Oshiomhole, said that any Uzodinma governorship in Imo will end “familiocracy” According to him, Uzodinma, would return Imo to the people and bring an end to government by a single family. Oshiomhole said Uzodinma would represent hope for the people of the state, adding that non-payment of salaries would be a thing of the past. He added that with Uzodinma appointment into government will be based on merit not on mediocrity or family affairs. He said that Uzodinma will bring real happiness to Imo people, saying “When we talk of happiness, we will not domesticate it in the hands of a sister. The happiness of the great people of Imo State will be the primary purpose of government under Sen. Hope Uzodinma.” The APC chairman also promised transparency and due process in government affairs. Meanwhile, Imo state government has denied reports that Uzodinma applied for and was denied the use of Dan Anyiam Stadium in Owerri. A statement signed by the Chief Press Secretary to the governor, Sam Onwuemeodo, said the APC could not have been denied the use of the facilities because it belonged to Imo people. “We have heard the false claim by Chief Hope Uzodinma, the Adams Oshiomhole’s preferred governorship candidate of All Progressives Congress, APC, Imo State, that he asked for the Dan Anyiam Stadium for his flag off campaign and the government refused to give him the Stadium. “For those who know Chief Hope Uzodinma very well, they won’t be surprised that he could come up with this false claim on the issue. Only men like Adams Oshiomhole would believe him. “Since Governor Rochas Okorocha became governor in 2011, the Dan Anyiam Stadium has always been made available for all the political parties and candidates to use, not minding the political affiliations. “The stadium is the property of Imo people and Chief Uzodinma would not have been denied the opportunity of using the facility for the flag-off of his campaign if he had asked or applied for it,” the statement added. Uzodinma wants to be gov to evade arrest — Okorocha Uzodinma wants to be gov to evade prosecution - Okorocha Imo APC crisis: We have no governorship candidate yet – Ekechi