The presidential candidate of Freedom and Justice Party (FJP), Dr. Onwubuya John Abraham Breakforth, said on Tuesday that President Muhammadu Buhari narrowly escaped a booby trap set up for him by the leadership of the National Assembly. Breakforth said by rejecting to sign the 2018 Electoral Act Amendment Bill, Buhari had saved Nigeria’s democracy. He said the new bill would have compelled INEC to change its activities for the 2019 elections; a development that would change the May 29 dateline of swearing in new or re-elected leaders. “So it was patriotic for President Buhari to decline assent to the bill, it was a wise decision because had he not, it would have derailed the entire electoral processes…Of course, that would have caused confusion and chaos, the result would be mass protest, and litigations. These can unsettle the polity, plunge us in anarchy and there is no way the present government can contain the uprising and the chaos before May 29,” he said. He said with the compulsory exit of President Buhari on May 29, the ground would be cleared for the National Assembly whose tenure would continue until sometime in June to invoke the “doctrine of necessity” that culminate in the formation of interim government which would be headed by Bukola Saraki. On his presidential ambition, Breakforth said if voted by Nigerians, he would use his vast experience to change the security architecture by disbanding the offices of chief of defence staff and the ministry of police affairs which he said were mere duplications. He said he would also privatize the health sector including public hospitals and instead provide health insurance to all Nigerians as obtained in other climes, a development he said would lead to job opportunities for millions. He said the same would be done in the power sector to attract foreign direct investment and efficiency. New Electoral Act is recipe for chaos – BMO Credible election: March your words with action, CSOs tell Buhari Abracadabra, the Electoral Act and irresponsible political action