Detectives attached to the Lagos State Police Command on Monday arrested popular musician, Adekunle Temitope, popularly called ‘Small Doctor’ and three others over an alleged unlawful possession of firearm. The musician was also accused of threatening to shoot a police officer. Lagos State Police boss, CP Edgal Imohimi, who confirmed the incident, said the suspects were arrested at Oshodi area of Lagos after they had threatened to shoot traffic policemen. Imohimi added that he was disappointed with the musician’s conduct, knowing he had a case with the SCIID, Panti for shooting at his show in Agege where he allegedly injured four persons. “You would have thought the incident would have made him wise up but surprisingly today, I got a situation report from traffic monitors at Oshodi expressway alleging that four unknown gunmen in green unregistered SUV brought out a weapon and threatened to fire the policemen. Fortunately, the DPO and other policemen at Shogunle intercepted the suspects and arrested them. “When they were brought here, it was discovered that one of them was the same Adekunle Temitope aka Small Doctor with three others and they were arrested with a functional rifle, a cartridge and some personal items. “I am concerned as one who will expect that a popular musician like him would be a role model but his character of gangsterism is nothing to emulate.” he said. Edgal further urged celebrities to stop getting involved in gangsterism, saying conflicts do not portray them well. “You would recall that the Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris have a window period for submission of all firearms as all licences had been cancelled and all approvals suspended. “I have directed that the case be properly investigated and they will be charged for threatening violence on policemen and being in possession of forearm.” he said. Popular musician, Small Doctor, 3 others arrested for alleged possession of firearm Pastor in police net for propagating hate speech Ex-convict arrested for robbing motorists with toy gun in traffic