The Theatre Command of the Operation Lafiya Dole in Borno State yesterday announced the suspension of operations of the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) in the Northeast until further notice. Army spokesman at the command, Colonel  Onyema Nwachukwu, said in a statement yesterday in Maiduguri that the command had observed that some activities of some international humanitarian agencies and non-governmental organisations operating in the Northeast had left so much to be desired. “There is credible information that some of them are indulging in unwholesome practices that could further jeopardize the fight against terrorism and insurgency, as they train and deploy spies who support the insurgents and their sympathizers. “It is baffling to note that some of these organizations have been playing the terrorists’ script with the aim to continue demoralizing the troops who are doing so much to protect the lives of victims of Boko Haram terrorism and safe guard them from wanton destruction of property and means of livelihood. “The Theatre Command considers the actions of these organizations as a direct assault and insult on the sensibilities of Nigerians, as they tend to benefit more from expanding the reign of terror on our people,” he said. Unwachukwu added, “Consequently, the Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole is suspending the operations of the United Nations International Children’s Emergency Fund (UNICEF) in the North East theatre until further notice. “This has become inevitable since the organization has abdicated its primary duty of catering for the well being of children and the vulnerable through humanitarian activities and now engaged in training selected persons for clandestine activities to continue sabotaging the counter terrorism and counter insurgency efforts of troops through spurious and unconfirmed allegations bothering on alleged violations of human rights by the military. “Information within the reach of this command specifically indicates that the organization commenced the said training on Wednesday, 12 December 2018 at the Ministry of Finance Conference Hall, Musa Usman Secretariat, Maiduguri and ended on Thursday, 13 December 2018. Spokesman of UNICEF, Geoffery Njoku, could not be reached for the organisation’s reaction at press time. However, a source within UNICEF  said the organisation was aware of  the development and was working on a response. He said UNICEF’s reaction would be disseminated when ready. page 4 thursday B/Haram: Media centre set for information coordination The decline in Global Terrorism Index