The governorship candidate of the Action Alliance (AA) in Imo state, Ugwumba Uche Nwosu, has restated his unwavering commitment to ensuring that President Muhammadu Buhari wins the 2019 election. He said that no amount of blackmail from any quarter will prevent him and his followers from supporting Buhari’s re-election. Nwosu  defected fromthe All Progressives Congress (APC) to AA after the hotly-contested governorship primaries. He said that the condition that necessitated his exitt from  APC had nothing to do with the president. He said,  “My support for the President is beyond personal considerations or hparty and religious inclinations. Those fighting to get the attention of the President by blackmailing him cannot deliver him in their booths because they are not popular. “Whether they blackmail us or not, the truth is that we have made up our minds to support President Buhari. If I will not be supporting President Buhari, I won’t be putting his pictures on my billboards and campaign posters, otherwise who am I deceiving. We have together with the governor of the state, Owelle Rochas Okorocha, made up our mind to support President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 and nothing can change that. “In 2015, President Muhammadu Buhari won with a wide margin in my Eziama-Obire Ward and in the 2019 election, despite being the governorship candidate of the Action Alliance, I will deliver President Buhari in my Ward but those running to Abuja to blackmail me cannot convince a single person to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari. “All those carrying the blackmail should come out and show us their supporters that will vote for President Buhari all they are interested in is to use the President’s name and compromise the election because they know that they don’t stand a chance in a free and fair election but that will not work in Imo State.” Imo guber: Nwosu formally defects to Action Alliance, expresses confidence of victory Imo: Nwosu formally defects to Okorocha’s party My son in-law will contest Imo gov’ship in another party – Okorocha