The Emir of Anka and Chairman, Zamfara State Council of Chiefs, Alhaji Attahiru Muhammad Ahmad, has asked the federal government to provide rifles including AK 47 and Pump action guns to them to deal with armed bandits as killings and kidnappings continue unabated across the state. The Emir spoke during the distribution of 850 motorbikes to the recently recruited Civilian Joint Task Force in the state. He said the armed bandits, cattle rustlers and kidnappers in the state are using AK47 rifles to attack and kill their people, therefore, the same type of weapons should be provided to their people so that the criminals would be confronted head on. “We are in serious trouble as a people, things are worsening by the day. The criminals have changed tactics and the authorities must change their tactics too. The security operatives should be despatched to the flash points,” he said. The traditional ruler further explained that the people of the state are in dilemma for the fact that despite the deployment of more security operatives to the state, atrocities being committed by the armed men have not reduced. “Farming and animal rearing that were hitherto the major occupations of the citizens of the state especially dwellers of the rural communities have now been abandoned as armed bandits have placed the state under siege,” he added. The Emir then begged residents to discontinue paying ransom to criminals whenever one of their family members is kidnapped saying if the kidnapped dies, he dies the death of a martyr. In his address, the state commissioner for local government and chieftaincy affairs, Alhaji Bello Dankande Gamji said the constitution has spelt who is to hold guns and they appreciate the efforts of the traditional rulers in helping to restore peace to the state. He said they had realized that no matter the number of security operatives deployed to the state, if the local vigilantes who know the terrain better than them  are not engaged, no meaningful progress would be made. “Despite the death threats I have been receiving, that would not deter us from doing the right thing. The CJTF members would start receiving their monthly stipends from this week and this will boost their morale in carrying out their tasks,” he added. Zamfara Civilian JTF:  ‘We’re ready to sacrifice our lives for our communities’ We will sacrifice our lives for our communities – Zamfara CJTF 3 more persons get N4m for recovering rifles in Zamfara