The National Chairman of the Social Democratic Party (SDP), Chief Olu Falae, has told Prof. Jerry Gana that it would amount to contempt of court for him to attend his presidential campaign launch and stakeholders summit. In a statement he personally signed and issued on Friday, he confirmed that he received a letter dated December 27, 2018 from Professor Gana, seeking “leave of the National Chairman ” to ” unveil the vision and Programme ” of his Presidential Campaign and, inviting him as “Chief Host ” at both the “unveiling ” on Saturday December 29, 2018 and at the “Summit of Stakeholders ” which he is planning for Saturday January 5 , 2019. The statement read, “Earlier correspondence from Prof. Gana makes it clear that he is basing these proposals on the judgement of the FCT High Court dated 14th December 2018. “The counsel of all the five defendants in the case (including our party, SDP),  Wole Olanipekun & Co,  has already appealed to the Court of Appeal against that judgement. “We have also, through our Counsel, filed a motion at the Court of Appeal, praying for certain reliefs including stay of execution of the judgement of the High Court and injunctive reliefs against Prof Jerry Gana, pending the determination of the Appeal.” He said since all the relevant processes had been served on Prof. Gana’s counsel, the party cannot and should not attend any of the events being scheduled by Prof Gana and his Campaign Committee as it will amount to a breach of the court process and may amount to Contempt of Court. Chief Falae enjoined party members to remain calm. “I appeal to all party official at all levels, leaders and members to stay calm and refrain from participating in actions designed to pre-empt the courts. “We must remain loyal to the party which is more important than any of us. We are all one party and we are all united,” said Chief Falae. It would be recalled that Donald Duke, who emerged the SDP presidential candidate at October 7 convention, was sacked by an Abuja Federal High Court. The court argued that his emergence violated the power rotation agreement in the party constitution, a position the party had appealed. Donald Duke picks SDP presidential ticket Can Jerry Gana change 2019 calculations? SDP: Jerry Gana faults emergence of Donald Duke