The call by Vice President Yemi Osinbajo for the Yoruba in South West to vote for President Muhammadu Buhari in 2019 so as to have a shot at the presidency in 2023 is a clarion call for the Ndigbo in South East Nigeria, Director General of Voice of Nigeria (VON), Mr. Osita Okechukwu, has said. He said the call by Osinbajo was constitutional and valid, but should also be seen as a wake-up call for the Igbo. Addressing a press conference in Enugu, Okechukwu commended Osinbajo for the statement. He, however, noted that the South East was the only geopolitical zone in the southern belt that had not presided over Nigeria since 1999 when the concept of rotational presidency was adopted. The VON DG explained that a president of Nigeria of Igbo origin “In 2023 is a win-win-scenario and a golden opportunity for Ndigbo to end the vexatious issue of marginalisation and create a sense of belonging in the Nigerian family.” He appealed to Ndigbo to hearken to “this clarion call as all we need is to vote for President Buhari, so as to reinforce the equity, natural justice and good conscience which is on our side.” According to him, “Our vote for Buhari will engender the support of his mass followers in the northern belt, for Buhari has a vote-bank of 10-12 million voters, which is a big arsenal. “Our support for Buhari is also predicated on the foundation he is laying on critical infrastructure  development – the 2nd Niger Bridge, 5,000 kilometres federal roads, 5,000 kilometre standard gauge railways, additional 5,000 megawatts of electricity and self-sufficiency in food production.” On the chances of PDP candidate Atiku Abubakar, he said President Buhari’s remaining four years post 2019 was cast in constitutional stone, while Atiku’s promises were at best a pledge. “Atiku’s manifesto is a six-year plan, therefore Buhari’s option is the quickest and surest route to Nigerian president of Igbo extraction,” he said. 2019: Igbo should accept Buhari''s Olive branch - Okechukwu Igbo should accept Buhari’s olive branch — VON DG Biafra agitation could scuttle Igbos'' chance at presidency- S/East  APC