Engr. Mahaman Laouan Gaya, who is the Secretary General, African Petroleum Producers Organisation (APPO), in this interview speaks on ongoing reforms to strengthen the organisation.  The African Petroleum Producers Organisation is undergoing an important reform. How did APPO evolve and how is the organisation serving its member countries? It should first be noted that the African Petroleum Producers Organisation (APPO) is an African intergovernmental organisation created on January 27, 1987 in Lagos, Nigeria, to serve as a platform for cooperation and harmonization of efforts, collaboration, sharing of knowledge and skills among African oil producing countries. When it was founded, it was called African Petroleum Producers Association (APPA). With 18 member countries, it accounts for nearly 95 per cent of Africa’s oil production and accounts for at least 13% of world production. One of APPO’s important missions is the promotion of joint initiatives (projects, infrastructure) in management policies and strategies across the entire oil industry value chain, to enable its member countries to draw better profits from the activities of this non-renewable resource. After more than a quarter century of existence, it was recognised that despite some progress, APPO did not meet the expectations of member countries. The organisation had entered a serious weakness and non-visibility. Observers were constantly wondering what it was for. The organisation, which was sinking on sight, in total ignorance of the global oil context, needed to be reframed on the global oil and energy scene to meet the challenges of the day. As rescue measures, the Council of Ministers decided on its deep reform. Thus, as soon as we took office, we were confronted with this reform. After many meetings of the Committee of Experts and Council of Ministers, the draft of this reform was adopted in Luanda (Angola) in January 2018. The resolutions that were adopted included the new Vision and Mission, the new Strategic Objectives of the Organisation, its Guiding Principles and Values, the General Structure, the Mission Charters of the organs and bodies, the appointment of Dr. Emmanuel Ibe Kachikwu, Nigerian Minister of State for Petroleum Resources as APPO President effective 1st April 2018 for the implementation of the reform and the transfer of the activities of the organisation to Abuja (Nigeria) during this period. APPA has also been renamed the African Petroleum Producers’ Organization (APPO). The establishment of a Summit of Heads of State of Member Countries of the Organisation was also endorsed in principle as and when necessary. Emphasis in reform will be placed on close coordination and new synergy between Member Countries. This reform will focus on creating a united African front on the global energy stage – which will certainly increase the power of the African voice – and increase intra-African cooperation. What role does APPO currently play on the international stage, and how do you want its influence to evolve in the next few years? Historically, APPO played very little role on the international stage but that is rapidly changing. Our current primary objective is to see the organisation align with the global oil and energy directions set out by the United Nations, the World Petroleum Council, the World Energy Council (with the resolution of the Energy Trilemma), the African Union (with the Africa Mining Vision), the African Development Bank (with the “New Deal” for Energy in Africa), NEPAD, etc… It must have a positioning in the energy, oil and gas sectors in Africa and promote its activities like other similar institutions, such as the Organisation of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC), the International Energy Forum (IEF), the Gas Exporting Countries Forum (GECF), etc… The fundamental basis for this success is of course the political will of African leaders. Since moving to Abuja a few months ago, the organisation has received the special attention of the highest Nigerian authorities and I believe that at the end of this transitional period that will devote a total change of the institution; we will finally lay the foundations for a new organisation…the new pride of Africa. This is to say that the machine of reform is in full swing and our goal is to make this organisation one of the largest and most powerful on a continental scale. African countries are becoming increasingly engaged in the global oil and gas conversation through bodies like OPEC and GECF. Do you see this new coordination outlasting the low oil prices and OPEC- led production cuts ? I believe the low oil prices ushered in a new era of coordination throughout the oil and gas industry, from the private sector to governments to organisations like OPEC and APPO. OPECs Declaration of Cooperation is a key indicator of the need to cooperate across borders and across alliances, and the entire world has now seen the power of such coordination. What is the future of the oil industry in Africa, particularly the countries that have recently entered the energy economy, such as Kenya, Uganda, Mozambique and Senegal ? In general, it is recognised by all that the African subsoil is full of fossil energy resources (oil, gas, coal, uranium,…) and those of renewable origins (hydraulic, solar, wind, biomass, geothermal,…). In addition, Africa is today inhabited by nearly one billion inhabitants, 60% of whom are young, while Europe, America and Asia are increasingly ‘’aging’’. In Africa, 20 countries are now identified as oil producers (the 18 APPO Member Countries, South Sudan and Tunisia) and about 30 others are conducting prospecting and research operations. Offshore and onshore basins, both off East Africa, the African part of the Indian Ocean, West Africa, and the hinterland countries are little explored and with very good prospects, like Kenya, Uganda, Mozambique, Senegal as you mentioned, but also Tunisia, Tanzania, Sao Tome & Principe, Madagascar, the Comoros, etc… There is no doubt that Africa’s oil and gas potential can compete today with that of any other regions in the world. This leads me to say that if Africa were to be considered as a single producer, it is certain that our continent will challenge Saudi Arabia, Russia and the United States. To do this, we must put an end to the disunity and hyper-balkanization that characterise today’s Africa and further promote its integration. In the new APPO Statutes, it is stipulated that any African country with proven hydrocarbon reserves (not necessarily in the production phase) may be a full member of the Organization. Our current concern is therefore to bring African countries to more synergy of actions in their oil and gas industries; and this is what will strengthen Africa’s influence in world markets and enable it to better meet its own energy needs. Anyway, the hydrocarbon potential is there and, in the years to come, believe me, Africa will bring some big surprises in the oil and gas sector. African oil producers’ group moves hqtrs to Abuja Africa can decide oil price, energy policy if… – APPO scribe Towards the reform of Africa’s ‘OPEC’