Kogi State deputy Governor, Elder Simon Achuba has embarked on a two months’ annual leave. A statement issued on Tuesday in Lokoja by the Chief Press Secretary to the Deputy Governor, Sylvester Akor said Achuba proceeded on two months annual leave beginning from November 26, 2018 and will end on January 26, 2019. “This information is necessary to clear the air on the rumour being peddled that the Deputy Governor is not on leave”, the statement said. In a letter dated 19th November, 2018 and addressed to Governor Bello, Achuba requested for approval to proceed on annual leave. The letter, signed by the Director of Protocol to the Deputy Governor, Victor Okee, noted that Achuba has not gone on annual leave since the inception of the administration. Daily Trust reports that the deputy governor’s “long annual leave” is coming amidst reports of alleged existence of a frosty relationship between him and Governor Yahaya Bello. Achuba, who is said to had been allegedly sidelined in the scheme of things in the state for some time now, has however maintained sealed lips on the matter. This is just as the Kogi State government has said that the state governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello, handed over to the Speaker of the state House of Assembly,  Matthew Kolawole, to act on his behalf before departing with President Muhammadu Buhari for the Climate Change Summit in Poland. The Director General of Media and Publicity to the governor, Kingsley Fanwo, who disclosed this in Lokoja, said the governor did what is “necessary of him to keep the administration of the State going.” Fanwo stated: “Rt Hon. Matthew Kolawole is the Acting Governor of the State. He has been overseeing the affairs of the state since the departure of Governor Yahaya Bello to Poland. “As you can see, I have come to take briefs from him. He is someone who believes in the political leadership of Governor Bello and the New Direction Blueprint of the Administration.” When asked about the whereabouts of the deputy governor, Fanwo told journalists to confirm that from the media handlers of the deputy governor. “The deputy governor has people who speak for him. They will confirm to you that the Deputy Governor is currently on Annual leave as we speak. The Governor has the powers to hand over to the Speaker since the deputy governor has gone on leave. He has not violated any law. “The Speaker is grateful to the Governor for the confidence reposed in him and has pledged his unalloyed commitment to the success of the administration. “What is happening in Kogi State is a perfect symbiosis in governance and the people are reaping the fruits of the cooperation between the Executive and the legislature as we are witnessing in this dispensation.” How Kogi dep gov emerged Kogi: Achuba sworn in as Bello’s deputy Kogi: Bello settles for Achuba as deputy