The Kuje Area Council chapter of the All Progressives Grand Alliance (APGA) has adopted the incumbent chairman of the council, Alhaji Abdullahi D. Galadima, for the March 9, 2019 council polls. APGA chairman in the area Ibrahim Mohammed Babangida, made the declaration when he led the party officials of the local government and 10 ward executives into the APC in the council yesterday. A former chairman of the council, Alhaji Ibrahim Kpotun, former supervisory councillor for education, Suleiman Shuaibu, former PDP elders, Alhaji Yahaya Hussain and Alhaji Mohammed Guguwa, as well as former special adviser on media and publicity, Suleiman Sabo, also defected to the ruling APC. Speaking at the defection ceremony, the APGA chairman said the party made series of consultations and sought advice from its stakeholders before it unanimously resolved to adopt the incumbent chairman for a second term. He said since the inception of the APC-led administration under the leadership of Abdullahi Galadima, he had carried everybody along irrespective of ethnic, religious or political differences. Also speaking, a former chairman of the council, Ibrahim Kpotun, said he decided to lead over 300 former members of the PDP into the APC because of the style of leadership of the present APC-led administration in the area. He said the ruling APC under President Muhammadu Buhari has achieved a lot especially in the area of infrastructural development, economy and tackling corruption which, he added, became necessary for him and some of his loyalists to pitch tent with the APC. The chairman of APC in FCT, Alhaji Usman Abdulmalik, represented by the state auditor of the party, Alhaji Abdulrahman Ndagi who received the defectors, commended them for joining the ruling APC. He said he was impressed that some members of the opposition had identified with the performance of the ruling APC administration within the past three years, assuring that the APC was ever ready to continue to provide dividends of democracy to the people of the FCT.  We shall take over all FCT area councils in 2019 – PDP chairman We shall take over all FCT area councils in 2019 – PDP chairman We shall take over all FCT area councils in 2019 – PDP chairman