Kogi State Government says it has concluded plans to harness its abundant mineral resources across the state and boost its revenue generations. Special Adviser to Kogi State Governor on Energy and Power, Mr Otayitie Eminefo, stated this while speaking on the significance of the bill on Kogi State Mineral Resources Development Agency (MRDA) recently passed into law by the state assembly. He said the bill that established the agency was initiated and drafted by his office authorised by the governor – the first time Kogi would have a regulatory body for mining industry. He said that the bill was designed to provide effective participation, exploration and exploitation of the mineral resources within the state by the government. According to him, the agency is basically to generate revenue, build capacity and ensure that the used facilities by mining companies such as roads, water and land, are maintained. “The agency will be a one stop-shop for all mining activities within the state, and maximises revenue that comes from mineral resources within its borders. “It will ensure a cohesive funding for miners and increase their capacity, while protecting the citizens from sufferring through mining activities within the state. “It will also ensure that the host communities benefit maximally to the full extent as allowed by the Mineral and Mines Act of 2005, from the activities of the mining companies,” he said. Eminefo noted that in as much as mining fall under the exclusive list, it however did not stop the state from legislating around the Act to protect the its interests in the mining industry. “Regulation is done by the Federal Ministry of Mines, but this agency would ensure that it has a full list of miners and mining companies who are operating within the state. “The agency will collaborate with security agencies to ensure that the right thing is done in terms of the environmental impact assesment plans as the miners carry out their activities. “The agency will oversee the aspect that deals with the state including the local governments, which have share of the revenue generated within their borders”, he said. Kogi govt seeks review of solid minerals exploitation law Bad leadership,  bane of development in Kogi -Aspirant Kaduna signs N53m contract for  geological investigation