The Lagos state All Progressives Congress (APC) governorship candidate in the 2019 general elections, Babajide Sanwo-Olu, has deployed free WiFi in various locations across the state for residents to enjoy. A statement on Monday from the Babajide Olushola Sanwo-Olu Campaign Organisation (BOSCO) said the free WiFi was deployed in some selected areas “to further empower Lagosians to pursue their varied interests.” “The importance of data at work or at play cannot be overemphasised, and this decision to provide free WiFi by the APC gubernatorial candidate in Lagos State will assist the people of Lagos state live their full potentials. “This service is already up in some locations and is expected to expand its coverage to more areas of the state. “Some of the locations the service is up include Ikeja (by Ikeja City Mall); Iyana Ipaja (By Araromi Bus stop); Mushin, By Challenge Bus Stop; Festac Town by 402 Road; Surulere by Leisure Mall in Adeniran Ogunsanya,” it stated. Femi Olalekan, a student of the Yaba College of Education, thanked the APC governorship candidate for his thoughtfulness and magnanimity. “By this singular gesture, Babajide Sanwo-Olu has given Lagosians a sneak preview of what his tenure as the governor of Lagos State would be, if elected. It would be filled with pleasant surprises for us in the state. We praise God and thank him for this gift,” Olalekan said. Also commenting, Chioma Onwuka, a student of the University of Lagos, also got same alert from her phone and she connected to the free WiFi. “I quickly turned on my iPad for the required updates, an action I have been trying to complete for days but the system kept telling me I needed a WiFi connection. “You could imagine the smile on my face as I received the recent iPad updates. I can’t show the depth of my gratitude to Mr Sanwo-Olu for this,” she said. Lagos 2019: Ambode’s rival vows to fight on, says he is a proper Lagosian Cracks in Sanwo-Olu’s endorsement by opposition parties Lagos is not in bondage, says Sanwo-Olu