Muideen Olaniyi (Abuja), Nurudeen Oyewole (Lagos), Yusha’u A. brahim, Ibrahim Musa Giginyu (Kano), Lami Sadiq, Bashir Liman (Jos), Victor Edozie (Port Harcourt), Rakiya Mohammed (Sokoto), Habibu Aminu Umar (Katsina), Andrew Agbese (Kaduna), Shehu Umar (Gusau), Ismail Adebayo (Birnin Kebbi), Romoke W. Ahmad (Ilorin), Hope Abah Emmanuel (Makurdi), Ibraheem Hamza Muhammad (Lafia) & Tony Adibe (Enugu)  Overwhelmed by the dust raised after the just concluded primary elections of political parties across the country, the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) constituted a National Peace and Reconciliation Committee with delegations to the six geo-political zones to find “in-house solutions” to the challenges facing the party. The delegations were specifically tasked to address the lingering post-primary elections disputes ahead of the 2019 general elections. The delegations, headed by six governors, had since commenced their trouble-shooting job after the inauguration of the peace committee by the APC National Chairman, Com. Adams Oshiomhole, on Wednesday, November 21, 2018. Some of the aggrieved aspirants had decided to resort to legal redress despite the warning from the APC National Working Committee (NWC) that they should either withdraw their cases from the courts or face disciplinary action. In view of the contradictory signals coming from the states, Daily Trust Saturday decided to take a look at the job of the national peace and reconciliation committee. Uncertainties in South West The South West delegation was headed by the Borno State Governor, Kashim Shettima, Kaduna State Governor, Nasir El-Rufai as vice chairman and Gov. Akinwunmi Ambode of Lagos State as member. Gov. El-Rufai was upbeat about the few number of complaints received from Ekiti State, necessitating his claim that “thank God, the crises in Ekiti is not as serious as Ondo”,  the ongoing contention between a former Governor, Segun Oni, and Gov. Kayode Fayemi still unsettles many keen watchers of events. The crisis of confidence between the two started after the APC primary that saw Fayemi defeating Oni and other contenders. Similarly, in Ondo State, there has been a running battle between members of the National Assembly and Gov. Rotimi Akeredolu over the inability of many of the candidates to secure the party’s tickets for different political offices. At the sitting in Ibadan, Gov. Shettima expressed optimism that none of the six aggrieved members (three from Oyo and three from Osun) who lodged complaints eventually submitted any written petition. However, the reality on ground shows that whereas there may not be serious political issues from Osun owing to the fact that many of the aggrieved persons, especially those who lost out in the last gubernatorial primary, have defected to other parties, the situation in Oyo State is much tougher than Shettima painted. This came to the fore when a strong contender for the governorship, Adebayo Shittu, who is the current Minister of Communication, ignored the peace moves and vowed in an interview with reporters that he would be “a bastard” to work for the party’s success in the forthcoming gubernatorial election. Shittu was disqualified by the party from taking part in the primary as a result of his non-participation in the mandatory National Youth Service Corps (NYSC). At the committee’s reconciliatory sitting in Lagos, the Ogun State Governor was absent. The meeting was expected to be attended by party stakeholders from Lagos and Ogun states. Aggrieved members consoled – Shettima delegation When the Gov. Shettima-led delegation to the South West submitted its report on Thursday, the team said it consoled aggrieved members and reassured them of possible inclusiveness during all meetings held in the zone. Over 350 aggrieved persons meet Al-Makura-led delegation in North East Governor Umaru Tanko Al-Makura of Nasarawa State and Chairman of the delegation to the North East, said penultimate Monday that his team received over 350 presentations from aggrieved party members from the zone after submitting the report of his committee to Com. Adams Oshiomhole. Al-Makura, who declined to reveal the recommendations of his team, said the suggestions focused on critical issues that would guarantee victory for the party. North West team still worrying over Zamfara tussle In Kano State, Daily Trust Saturday gathered that prior to the constitution of the APC peace committee, Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje had set up a similar committee with Gen. Bashir Salihi Magashi (Rtd) as chairman. Confirming the development, the APC state Deputy Chairman, Shehu Maigari, said the Kano reconciliation committee had resolved most of the cases brought before it because of the importance attached to reconciliation. Maigari, however, said the party’s national reconciliation committee had not visited the state. Like in Kano State, the APC in Kebbi had set up a 14-man reconciliation committee headed by Sen. Muhammadu Magoro to reconcile its aggrieved members. The Magoro-led committee had reconciled over 80 aggrieved aspirants who had agreed to work for the party in 2019. Report from Sokoto State also indicates that the APC peace and reconciliation committee had not visited the state. However, in Katsina State, the APC Chairman, Alhaji Shitu Danchadi, said the party leadership had met with the reconciliation committee. Danchadi said the committee received only one complaint regarding Bakori/Danja Federal Constituency’s primary election case which was still pending in court. However, the spokesman of the APC Akida group, Barr. Abbas Machika, told Daily Trust Saturday that the reconciliation committee did not invite them for any meeting. The APC reconciliation committee was in Kaduna on Wednesday. The committee members, our correspondent learnt, met and deliberated on a number of issues, key among which was the lingering face-off between Gov. Abdulaziz Yari of Zamfara State and Sen. Kabiru Marafa over the issue of the APC governorship candidate in the state. Meanwhile, one of the APC governorship aspirants in Zamfara, Alhaji Ibrahim Wakkala Muhammad, said they had not been contacted by the reconciliation committee. Peace c’ttee still being expected in North Central All things seem to be good in Kwara State as aggrieved parties, including aspirants, party leaders, and elders have reconciled ahead of the general elections scheduled to take place in the next two months. The work of the Governor Ibrahim Gaidam-led national peace committee seemed to have been simplified following a reconciliatory meeting last week in Ilorin with the aggrieved APC aspirants. For Benue State, it is still uncertain how the reconciliation committee will handle the issue of aggrieved members with the amount of defections already taking place. Many say the earlier the committee berths in the state the better as the recent cracks on the walls of the APC were beginning to widen. The major issue likely to top the committee’s list will be the state party’s choice of deputy governorship candidate. In Nasarawa State, the aggrieved aspirants were said to have embraced peace. An insider told Daily Trust Saturday that Gov. Umaru Tanko Al-Makura convened a reconciliation meeting where an agreement was said to have been reached to refund the money spent to purchase forms by the aggrieved aspirants that lost in the primary elections, while others would be compensated with political positions. It is all quiet in Plateau State as the six-man reconciliation delegation sent to the North Central under the leadership of Gov. Gaidam of Yobe State is yet to arrive the state. Not yet Uhuru in South South In Akwa Ibom State, the committee met with some of the aggrieved members of the party such as Mr. Udohedege who had since collapsed his team into Nsima Ekere’s camp. The committee also visited Cross River State where it met with some of the aggrieved members of the party such as the Minister of Niger Delta Affairs, Usani Usani, and a governorship aspirant, Mr. Owuan Enoh. The outcome of the meeting is yet to be made public. In Delta State, the committee is expected to look into the grievances of the aggrieved members of the party such as Chief Great Ogboru, Victor Ochie, Pat Utomi and others. The committee is yet to arrive Rivers, Edo and Bayelsa states. In Imo, it’s beyond reconciliation – Okorocha When the Gov. Abdullahi Ganduje-led delegation visited Imo State on November 29, 2018, Gov. Rochas Okorocha told them that the current situation in the state chapter of the APC had made reconciliation impossible. Okorocha said that Imo people were short-changed in their choice of who to govern them in 2019, stressing that it was too late for the party correct the wrongdoing. He specifically said that the crisis in the APC in his  state “has gone beyond what we can manage”, stating that, “Adams Oshiomhole singlehandedly meted grave injustice to Imo APC members and stole the mandate of Imo people” despite helping him to emerge as chairman. On Sunday, December 2, 2018, Ganduje and his team arrived the Ozone Hotel, Enugu, for a reconciliatory meeting with embittered members. An aggrieved member and Director General, Voice of Nigeria, Osita Okechukwu, said, “We are aggrieved but our being aggrieved will not be allowed to affect the re-election of Buhari. Our main goal is to return him to office next year.”  200 aspirants attend APC reconciliation c’ttee in Bauchi Oshiomhole to inaugurate govs-led APC reconciliation c’ttee today Oshiomhole’s reforms versus aggrieved party stalwarts