A care-giver and the Executive Director, Samaritan Care Initiatives (NGO), Dr. Tina Olayemi has charged the Borno state government and community leaders to do more in propagating girl-child education across the 27 local government areas of the state. Dr. Olayemi made the appeal while donating educational support materials and a generating set to provide water to pupils of Lawan Mustapha Primary and Junior Schools in Konduga town, Borno state. “As a result of insurgency, a lot of teachers have gone, a lot of children can’t attend classes the ways they should; the money that was supposed to be spent on education has gone to security and humanitarian services. “I wish the students especially girls will concentrate better. Also, I urge parents to send their wards to schools because education is the bedrock of the society. Without education they can’t get anywhere, education is important in life. “Females should be encouraged to go school; a lot of them are just playing around especially the girls. It is imperative for both various leaders and government to work more on female education and make sure they are well educated. Because of education, I am able to stand here and talk, care for people and I am able to see the loopholes and filled the gaps,” she urged. Dr. Olayemi stressed that lack of hygienic water and neat environment could lead to water-borne diseases. “We came here to donate generator plant and water containers to the school; we have been working here for almost 2 years and we discovered that during of our working periods, many students are dehydrated as there is no water to drink and this could lead to cholera because they drink any water they see. “That’s why we bought generator since have borehole but there is no generator to power it. At the same time, we decided to buy water containers for them. As we all know that Borno is very hot.” Dr. Olayemi said. The caretaker Chairman of Konduga LGA, Hon. Bulama Gana Dalori, expressed gratitude for the donations and promised to provide generators to other schools who lacked such. “We are thankful to Dr. Tina for coming to the aid of our future leaders; we know history will remember you for this singular act. I can assure that we will ensure that we provide same to others in this council,” Dalori said. The District Head of Konduga council, Zanna Yale, who was full of emotions, explained that for almost two years they have been receiving food assistance from the Samaritan Care Initiatives. “These pupils have been suffering from lack of water in these schools; we are happy that you deem it fit to bring succour to their plights; apart from educational support materials precisely generating set to pump water for students and water containers, cups and ablution kettles; you have provided relief items to us for almost two years now,” Yale said. Girl-child education:  How far has Nigeria gone? Shettima tasks elite on girl-child education Ford Foundation: Protecting the girl child