Suspected armed bandits have killed at least 22 persons in Malikawa village, Gidan Goga district in Maradun local government area of Zamfara state, Daily Trust learnt. Residents told Daily Trust that dozens of unidentified gunmen yesterday arrived on motorbikes firing at them. “I was coming back from farm around 4pm when I decided to take my bath; while in the bathroom, I heard people screaming for help. I came out of the bathroom and found the whole community in pandemonium. “Everyone was running to different directions with children crying for help. I learnt that we were under siege as gunshots rented the air. They were shooting people dead as they chased them on motorcycles. “Before I even looked for a way to escape, the armed men had already arrived at the door step of my residence. How I escaped remains a mystery to me,” a resident narrated. He further explained that 6 persons were burnt alive after which they buried them in corn stalks, stock filed a few yards from the village. “When the six persons were being chased on motorbikes by the armed bandits, the residents decided to bury themselves in a stock file of corn stalks, unknown to them that they were seen by the attackers. They (attackers) decided to torch the stalks burning all the people inside. “As I’m talking to you, I’m at the Boko village in search of missing children. We have not seen them since yesterday and those who died had already been buried,” he added. The spokesperson of the state police command SP Muhammad Shehu could not be reached for comment as at the time of filing this report. It will be recalled that Gidan Goga district had witnessed series of deadly assaults by motor bike-riding gang of armed men in the past. In May and July this year, 60 persons were killed in similar attacks on at least seven villages in the district by the suspected armed bandits and cattle rustlers. Zamfara’s killing fields: The inside story Bandits kill 30 in Zamfara village When Bandits Turned Zamfara into a Killing Field