National Chairman of the All Progressives Congress (APC) Comrade  Adams Oshiomhole says the ruling party expects nothing less than hundred per cent votes for Muhammadu Buhari in his home State of Katsina, considering his status as president of the country. Oshiomhole said this at the weekend in Funtua town when Governor Aminu Masari flagged off its governorship re-election campaign. He said the state could truly be portrayed as backing its son when it recorded such feat in the 2019 presidential election. He said there was no doubt that Buhari was loved and cherished not only in Katsina State and the country but also all over the world. “Katsina should not only ensure they vote massively for Buhari but also totally across for National Assembly, governorship and state assembly candidates,” he said. This, Oshiomhole said, would make the party take its rightful place as the dominant party in the state, adding that “voting APC National Assembly members will strengthen governance for the president as he pilots the affairs of the nation.” He said President Buhari has come to rescue the country from the shackles of insecurity, poverty and unemployment, adding that the solid foundation laid must not be allowed to waste in the hands of those who are bent on taking the country backwards. In his remarks, Governor Masari, who said the time for re-election had finally arrived to account for one’s deeds in office, stated that his “administration has performed excellently well to deserve a second tenure in office”. He said the administration came on the premise of change and restoration, stating that in the last three and half years, the government had touched the lives of the people, especially in the areas of education, health, roads construction and employment opportunities. He promised to give more attention to the education sector which he described as the bedrock of development, saying “we shall continue to massively invest in education”. “We will go round and show the people what we have done to deserve re-election. At every place we will visit, we shall unveil our projects and we await critics to challenge us thereafter,” he said. On President Buhari, Masari said Nigeria has no better candidate than him, adding that Nigerians and Katsina people “shall ensure that they vote massively for him” because of his good qualities, including trustworthiness. Earlier, the chairman of the campaign team and secretary to the state government, Dr Mustapha Inuwa, said the APC administration had shamed its critics by delivering on its promises made in 2014 despite the lean resources it met when it assumed office. At the event, APC flags were also presented to all the party flag bearers at both national and state assembly elections. 2019: Kano will deliver 5 million votes to Buhari, Ganduje insists Oshiomhole: A party leader on hot seat APC governors meet Buhari, Oshiomhole over primaries