A former president, Dr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, has condoled with the family of the late President Shehu Shagari, and described him as a “great leader” with a very clean heart. Jonathan came barely an hour after the condolence visit paid by President Muhammadu Buhari in company of the running mate of the presidential candidate of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Mr. Peter Obi and Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal, among other leaders of PDP in the state. According to Jonathan, Shagari had played key role in the development of Nigeria. “One unique thing about the late President which only those who had interacted with him would tell you is that in spite of various positions he held, he was a very simple and humble man. “He has a very clean and good heart which he had shown clearly in all his activities. “Well, today we are mourning but we are still happy because it is not easy reaching the age of 93. I believed he had done all the works Allah has asked him to come and do on earth. “We are encouraging you, and his family to be happy that their father had impacted on all of us,” he said. Jonathan said that the four years he worked as a president of this nation proven him as a person who meant well for this country, who had a heart of developing and uniting this country. In his condolence, Obi who said he was representing the PDP’s presidential candidate, Alhaji Atiku Abubakar and himself, urged Nigerians to emulate the life of the late President for the betterment of the country. Responding, the eldest son of late President, Bala Shagari, said they were happy with the visit, recalling that when Jonathan was in power, he hardly spent two weeks without calling to know about the health of their late father. Similarly, the governorship candidate of the National Rescue Movement (NRM) in Zamfara state, Senator Sa’idu Dansadau, who also visited, described the late President as an “institution”, saying his death was a great loss to the country, Africa and the whole world. Also at the Sama road’s residence of the ex-President was the former Nigerian High Commissioner to the United Kingdom, Dr. Dalhatu Sarki Tafida among others. Muhtari Shagari and his anti-zoning gamble Between Buhari and Shagari Shagari in symbolic  birthday celebration