Three persons were reported dead on Thursday following a ghastly auto crash that occurred at Agunlejika bus stop, on the Oshodi-Apapa expressway in Lagos. Four others also sustained varying degrees of injuries as both the injured and the deceased were rushed to the hospital immediately, Daily Trust learnt. It was gathered that the white bus with registration number MUS485XW was plying the road against traffic inward Mile 2 when it suddenly rammed into an articulated truck. Eye witnesses said many of the passengers were trapped underneath the truck, as the bus was on top speed when it colluded with an equally over-speeding truck with registration number: KRD426XL. A man who simply identified himself as Tunde said he saw victims trapped under the trailer, adding that some of the victims’ legs were cut off. “It was a horrible sight. The bus was plying one-way inward Mile 2 and was over-speeding. The trailer driver was also over-speeding and stubborn. He refused to allow the bus access and that was how they collided. “The bus tumbled. Some of the passengers ended under the trailer. Some had their legs chopped off. I saw about three dead people on the ground. “As soon as the accident occurred, the trailer driver escaped for fear of being killed,” he said. Another witness indicated that the accident was between the bus, truck and a Sports Utility Vehicle (SUV) who were all dragging right of way. “The accident took place between a ‘danfo’ bus, a container and an SUV all heading towards Oshodi. The three vehicles were dragging for space on a road that was very free. “They were trying to overtake each other, when suddenly the jeep turned to the Danfo’s direction while the Danfo turned towards the container; then the container hit the Danfo bus. “The bus somersaulted which led to the death of the conductor and two other passengers. About four other people sustained injuries.” It was gathered that it took the deployment of heavy duty equipment for the vehicles to be removed from the road to clear the traffic. As at the time of filing this report, officials of the Lagos State Emergency Management Agency (LASEMA) and other responders had bagged the bodies and evacuated them. Also, those injured were said to have been rushed to Isolo General Hospital in an ambulance. Operatives of the Nigerian Army, police and Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps (NSCDC) assisted LASEMA in the rescue. Confirming the incident, police spokesman, Chike Oti said three people died and five injured. Oti said the accident was caused by over-speeding, confirming that the bus was been driven against traffic. 2 killed, 6 injured in Awawa auto crash 5 killed, 2 injured in Adabo auto crash 2 die, 17 injured in auto crash at Gada-Biyu