Kwara state chapter of the All Progressives Congress (APC) has cancelled its gubernatorial campaign flag-off earlier slated to hold on Wednesday at Kosubosu, headquarters of Baruteen local government area of the state over security issue. A statement from the Kwara APC guber candidate, Abdulrahman Abdulrazak, said the party got reports that some persons have been imported from neighbouring Benin Republic to lay ambush on roads leading to the venue of the campaign. According to Abdulrazak, “Some of our members who had taken off early in the morning escaped being attacked only by the grace of God. The situation around Chikanda town is not favourable at all. “Therefore, I have reached out to relevant security agencies on how to arrest the ugly situation. It is no news, that some reactionary forces are no longer at ease since we debut our campaign slogan – OTOGE. Their reactions have shown that they will resist every attempt to change the old order in Kwara state. “While we remain resolute in our agenda to birth a new Kwara that will work for all, I will not allow human lives to be wasted on avoidable and redeemable ventures. “I have advised that our campaign flag-off be rescheduled to another date, so that we can work more extensively on the security challenge on ground. “I want to appreciate all those involved in the planning of the flag-off ceremony, our teeming members and supporters in Kwara North who have made adequate preparation to host us. Please remain steadfast as a new date will be fixed and communicated to you soon. “I am working diligently and cautiously at ensuring that our electioneering campaign will be devoid of violence not to talk of bloodletting. If moving this campaign flag-off to a new date will save us needless bloodletting by vampires, so be it.” The chairman of the party in the state, Hon Bashir O. Bolarinwa said the party has completely taken full charge of the campaign structures, processes and activities for the purpose of delivering an effective mobilisation of all Kwarans for the victory of all our candidates at the 2019 general elections. The politics that cost Saraki Kwara by-election Kwara petitions President, IG over violence Despite peace accord, political violence takes centre stage in Kwara