The Action Peoples Party (APP) and the Coalition of United Political Parties, CUPP have dragged President Muhammadu Buhari, Inspector General of Police, IGP Ibrahim Idris to court over the purported moves to extend the IGP’s tenure. Also dragged to an Abuja High Court in suit No. FHC/ABJ/CS/1570/2028 was the Nigeria Police Council and Police (NPC) Service Commission (PSC). The plaintiffs, in the suit filed on their behalf by Obed O.  Agu, are seeking an interpretation of Section 215 (1) of the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria (as amended) and the Public Service Rule 020810. They want the court to determine whether by the mandatory provision of the sections, an IGP shall only be appointed from among serving members of the police and whether any person or an officer who has attained 60 years or 35 years in service cannot be deemed to be serving member of the force. Addressing the press in Owerri on Thursday,  over the purported moves to extend IGP’s tenure,  First National Spokesman of CUPP, Ikenga Imo Ugochinyere and APP chairman,  Kenneth Udeze, said that the IGP, who will be 60 years on January 15, 2019, having been born January 15, 1959, was not eligible for extension, adding that any attempt to do so would contravene relevant sections of the constitution. CUPP claimed that moves to extend Idris’ appointment after retirement was a last desperate effort by the All Progressives Congress to politicise the police force and thwart the electoral will of Nigerians. The coalition expressed fears that the fact that the IGP had not commenced necessary procedures prior to retirement had further confirmed their suspicion. The coalition accused some APC chieftains of being behind the plot to extend IGP’s tenure, adding that the 2019 election is a straight contest between Buhari and Atiku Abubakar, who is the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP)/Coalition candidate, which APC feared it could lose. While calling on the president to direct Idris to proceed on terminal leave, and commence his mandatory one month pre-retirement workshop/training, APP and CUPP gave the respondents 30 days to reply to the summons. Misau’s allegations: Senate probes IGP Zakari Biu: Neither Buhari nor APC Misau vs Nigeria Police: Who blinks first?