Ahead of 2019 general elections, former President Olusegun Obasanjo has said only a fool would maintain neutrality when Nigeria is being destroyed with “incompetence, corruption, brazen impunity and denial of the obvious.” Obasanjo was reacting to a statement that he had maintained neutrality ahead of the election as reported by a news medium (not Daily Trust) with headline “Atiku: Obasanjo Shifts Political Gear to Neutral.” The former President reportedly spoke at the 27th annual Owu National Convention held in Iwo, Osun state. In a statement made available to our correspondent on Sunday in Abeokuta, Ogun state, by his media aide, Kehinde Akinyemi, Obasanjo recalled that he would not impress any candidate on Nigerians, rather they should “vote for credible candidates who will drive growth and development and make their lives better than it is now.” The Ota-farmer insisted that “he will not sit on the fence when he needs to be out and active for people to know where he stands in the best interest of Nigeria.” Daily Trust recalls that Obasanjo had endorsed the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) presidential candidate, Atiku Abubakar who according to him, would perform better than President Muhammadu Buhari. Obasanjo urged Nigerians to be active and not just complain and remain complacent as they allow themselves to be deceived by “sycophants and enemies of Nigeria.” “It is disingenuous, if not malicious, for anyone to suggest that Chief Obasanjo was being neutral when he chose not to use the Owu Convention as a platform for political campaign but instead adopt a communal and familial approach in talking to members of his Owu family. “Chief Obasanjo’s statement did not suggest his neutrality. In fact, the former President believes that only a fool will sit on the fence or be neutral when his or her country is being destroyed with incompetence, corruption, lack of focus, insecurity, nepotism, brazen impunity and denial of the obvious. Chief Obasanjo is no such fool nor is he so unwise. “The former President further urges Nigerians who are victims of what we have for now to stop just complaining and go out to get beneficial change. “If they do not become active and get much needed change of the current administration to a government that will improve the economy, regain the confidence of investors and generally drive growth, development and economic progress with security, what is coming will be much worse than what Nigerians currently suffer. “On his part, Chief Obasanjo will remain consistent in speaking out whenever and wherever he sees evil as he is known to do no matter whose ox is gored. “Nobody should manipulate Chief Obasanjo’s position, particularly on the 2019 Presidential election and what he said in Iwo to perpetrate or perpetuate continued destruction of our country,” the statement read. Wikileaks and our clay-footed moral giants Misfit/Misfit Leadership, Not Muslim/Muslim, Is What Haunts Nigeria Between Messenger and Message