 The Federal Government says as of September 2017, it has so far disbursed a total of N1.91 trillion in loans to states from the Excess Crude Account (ECA), the budget support facility and the Paris Club refunds. Vice President Yemi Osinbajo said this in Abuja at the Dialogue of Organs of Government on Reform of Justice Sector and Campaign Against corruption, jointly organized by the Presidential Advisory Committee Against Corruption and Federal Ministry of Justice, with the theme “The Imperative of Cooperation of Arms of Government in a Democratic Dispensation." Osinbajo put the ECA and the budget support loans received by the states within the period at N873.3 billion, saying no previous administration had given such support to state governments since 1999. The vice president, who was represented by the Deputy Chief of Staff Ade Ipaye, said the present administration should be applauded for exercising restraint and discipline in its appointment of public servants. He said despite the latest corruption perception index released by Transparency International, the administration was making real progress in its fight against corruption, saying the perception of the TI "may indeed lag behind reality." He, however, said rather than see the ranking of Nigeria by the TI as a setback. the government had "to keep up the good fight until the full effect of our efforts can be clearly seen and perceived." He said main reason for Nigeria’s decline in the Transparency International 2017 Corruption Perception Index was that the nation recorded a major drop in score on just one out of the nine international recognized indexes used by Transparency International to ascertain perceived levels of public sector corruption from the perspective of experts and business people. “So, the the drop recorded was in just one out of the nine recognized indexes. The index in question scored Nigeria low on the economy intelligence unit country’s risk service with the decline from 37 points to 20. This is an index that analysis the risks of financial exposure in countries. “The question to be asked then is what changed so dramatically between 2016 and 2017? As we speak, the budget for 2018 is under public scrutiny at the National Assembly, the allocation and use of public funds is guided by the budget and represents one of the key areas of consultations and interaction between the two arms of government, that is the executive and legislature. “The endless number of probes and the use of public funds going on both within the executive and the legislative arms, underscores the transparency of this government and its intention to ensure that funds are used for public purposes. “What sets Buhari’s leadership apart from others, is the prudent and transparent management of national resources. Thus, despite upto 60 percent drop in revenue, we have by stopping grand corruption, make highest capital spend in the history of Nigeria, in the sum of N1.3 trillion in 2017," Osinbajo said. He stressed the need for cooperation among the three arms of government to strengthen the democratic process, promote good governance, responsible leadership, transparency and accountability in governance. The chairman of the Presidential Advisory Committee on Anti-Corruption, Itse Sagay, said his committee would rather work alone rather than with corrupt people. "You cannot be corrupt and be talking against corruption, it ridicules the whole exercise and the spirit of that struggle. And so, we should purge ourselves of corruption so that we can stand on firm ground to speak. Some might have been corrupt in the past but if you purge yourselves then you are welcome. It ridicules the whole process when we see people waxing lyrical on anti-corruption whereas behind them, they have huge load of assets and other things which they corruptly acquired. “So, collaboration and cooperation is essential because we need each other in order to succeed. But I think I will rather work alone than work with a corrupt person who is not sincere and is just making a fool of the whole country whilst preaching like a pastor about corruption," Sagay said.