Students from senior secondary schools across Nigeria can now register freely on InterswitchSPAK to participate in the national science competition billed to commence later in April this year. The competition tagged Interswitch SPAK is aimed at re-igniting the importance STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics) subjects for Nigerian youths. According to the sponsor of the competition, Interswitch, education has suffered massive decline in Nigeria, leaving our youths poorly equipped for the future tasks necessary for self fulfilment and nation building. Speaking at the launch event, Chief Marketing Officer, Interswitch, Cherry Eromosele said: “SPAK is a distinctive concept under the Interswitch “Switch A Future” initiative. As a mix of education, technology and entertainment which align with Interswitch’s fundamental values of excellence and innovation, this initiative is designed to identify, promote and spark the right support and reward for STEM students and stakeholders. “For our youth to succeed in today’s knowledge-based economy; they need to acquire the right skill set, their minds need to be re-engineered and reconciled with STEM education in order to compete in or create a job market.”   Also speaking at the event, the Marketing Manager of Interswitch, Olawale Akanbi announced that the registration portal opens today, Wednesday Feb.21 till Sunday, April 15, 2018. He added that the overall 1st winner will be awarded a 5-year scholarship in any Nigerian tertiary institution, a laptop, gold trophy and monthly stipends for the 5 years, all totalling N7.5million. He said the overall 2nd winner will be given a 3-year scholarship, a laptop, silver trophy accordingly and monthly stipends for the 3 years, all totalling N4million while the third overall winner will receive a 1-year scholarship, a laptop, and a bronze trophy. He however added that the teachers who nurture the students and their schools will also be rewarded. He advised every school across the nation to register their top six students, adding that many girl-children are encouraged to register.