The Nigerian Army on Friday said troops movement under Operation  Deep Punch II was temporarily halted in line with military plan and  strategy and in view of  the exigencies of time. Col. Onyema Nwachukwu, the Deputy Director, Army Public Relations, made this known in a statement issued in Maiduguri. He dismissed media report that the temporary halt of troops movement  was intended to aid the escape of the faction Boko Haram leader,  Abubakar Shekau, from the Sambisa Forest. Nwachukwu said the ongoing clearance operation by troops under the  operation Deep Punch II was being carried out according to official  plans. The deputy director described the media report as “frivolous”as it  is capable of demoralising the troops and hampering progress of the  ongoing exercise. According to him, such misinformation does not reflect the strong  character and courageous disposition of troops of Operation Lafiya Dole  and it is untenable and misleading. The army spokesman urged the public to disregard such information and  cooperate with the military to enable it to succeed in its clearance  campaign against the remnants of the Boko Haram insurgents. The statement of the Nigerian Army reads: “The attention of Theatre Command, Operation Lafiya Dole has been  drawn to unfortunate mainstream and social media report insinuating that  troops advance at the ongoing Operation Deep Punch II was deliberately  halted to allow the escape of the purported Boko Haram terrorist faction  leader, Abubakar Shekau in Sambisa forest. This is not true. “Contrary to the mischievous allegations, no such order or directive  was given by anybody to any of the units and formations in the  operation. “It is crucial to point out that there are several factors in  planning and conduct of military operations, whether kinetic or  otherwise. “The ongoing Operation Deep Punch II, which is aimed at clearing Boko  Haram insurgents from the Sambisa forest and the northern fringes of  Lake Chad region, was planned to be executed in phases. “It is a phase operation, therefore, requires that at a predetermined  point or stage, troops will be halted either preparatory for transiting  to another phase or the other depending on the threat situation. “During the operation, troops’ movement could be put on halt when  vehicles or other mobile equipment are bugged down due to the difficulty  of the terrain and for recovery purposes. “In military operations avenues are deliberately provided for troops  to harbour, where they rest and carry out refitting of weapons and other  equipment before resuming the operations. “Additionally, booby traps and land mines could also compel advancing  troops to halt to enable some specialized squad or scouts assess the  situation before movement resume. “These and several other factors could precipitate the halting of troops during operations. “It is, therefore, very appalling and unimaginable that a fundamental  operational procedure could be misinterpreted and be mischievously used  as a psychological weapon to indirectly dampen the morale of our  troops.” (NAN)