The death toll in Monday’s communal clash at Kasuwan Magani in Kajuru Local Government Area of Kaduna State has risen to 12 while 18 people have been arrested in connection with the violence. A team from the Kaduna State Security Council which visited Kasuwan Magani confirmed the cessation of hostilities. The team, led by the General Officer Commanding, 1 Division Nigerian Army, Major General Mohammed Mohammed, included the state’s Commissioner of Police, Austin Iwar, State Director of Department of State Services, Mohammed Wakil, Commander Nigerian Security and Civil Defence Corps, AM Bunu, Special Adviser on Internal Security, Col. Yakubu Yusuf (rtd) and Samuel Aruwan, Senior Special Assistant, Media and Publicity to the Kaduna Governor. The GOC while speaking to leaders of the community tasked religious and traditional leaders to deepen the message of peace and integration, and tasked community leaders and residents not to undermine and destroy the four decades of togetherness and peaceful co-existence in the area. The Commissioner of Police, Mr. Austin Iwar, also briefed journalists, confirmed the arrest of 18 persons adding that the 18 persons are undergoing interrogation while security presence is being strengthened in the area.” Iwar said eleven victims of the crisis were “buried around 12 midnight” while one person who sustained injuries later died in the hospital on Tuesday. Our correspondent who was in Kajuru noticed that the centre of the town which has a market and business places has been deserted with only burnt structures littering the area. There were also several burnt vehicles left by the roadside. Iwar who addressed newsmen after a fact finding and assessment visit to the area, said no stone will be left unturned in unravelling the immediate and remote causes of the crisis. The police commissioner expressed shock at the scales of destruction. “It is unfortunate. As we can see the level of destruction is very high, some people were killed and properties were destroyed. This is not what we wished for our state, Kaduna. “We will talk to the stakeholders here and try to find out what is the problem and through civil problem solving approach and conflict resolution, we will deal with that. “We will also look at the criminal aspect of it. So far we have arrested eighteen people that we suspect were involved in the crisis. We are working round the clock to ensure that we get to the root of the matter. We have recovered a number of dangerous items, including petrol bombs. We believe this is a planned thing and we will get to the root of the matter. We will do a thorough investigation to ensure that it does not happen again” he said. The Police boss said the police was aware of “skirmishes” in the area two weeks ago and had made some arrests “but we did not know that there was a grand design to carry out massive destruction as it happened”. It will be recalled that the police yesterday said seven people lost their lives in the fracas while 15 others were injured.