Over 70 residents of Janguza, a farming community in Tofa local government area of Kano state, may possibly drag federal and Kano state governments to court for bridge of agreement over land compensation. The residents alleged that the federal government connived with Kano state government and confiscated farmlands they inherited from their forefathers for the construction of prison without any compensation. It would be recalled that Kano state government has approved relocation of Kurmawa central prison to Janguza village. Kano Chronicle observed that the federal government already mobilized contractors to the site and construction work has commenced. However, residents of the area have raised concern on the position of the authorities regarding the payment of compensations of the affected farmlands. The residents argued that although the federal and state governments’ representatives promised to pay the compensation to the farm owners during the site tour recently, majority of them were not given anything. Speaking through their solicitor Al-Sulh Attorneys in a letter of complaint, the residents stated that the said compensation was paid to only six farm owners leaving over 70 persons unpaid. “Kano state government handed over the farmlands to the federal government after it claimed paying adequate compensation to the lawful owners. The fact which was later affirmed by both the comptroller general Nigerian prison service and the state commissioner for women affairs as representative of the state government. “They allegedly paid compensation as the federal and state governments reaffirmed but the compensation was paid to only six owners of the farmlands leaving more than seventy unpaid,” the letter stated. The letter further said that, “As long as no notice of revocation of titles to the affected lands has been issued to the respective owners, the property remains theirs until they are adequately and promptly compensated.” Kano Chronicle learnt that the prison project would cover the main road linking Janguza community and other neighbouring villages including Yangarki, Katakau, Sakaratsa, Walawa, Kwangi, Rinji, Hayewa, Bambara, Gadawa, Burji, Danshayi and Maigari, Yalwa, Cishema and some other communities on the Kano-Gwarzo road. The letter foretold a likely problem in the future between the Kano state government and the Nigerian Army as the land to which the road is being diverted as a result of the prison project belongs to Nigerian Army which may take possession of the property anytime, thus making access to the affected communities a very difficult task.