The sack of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as Chairman of the Northern Senators Forum (NSF) has created a crack among the lawmakers. Daily Trust reports that Adamu, a key opponent of the reordering of elections sequence, was sacked on Wednesday over allegation of financial mismanagement. His removal was announced in a letter by Senator Dino Melaye, the spokesperson of the NSF. At yesterday’s plenary, Senator Malam Ali Wakili (APC, Bauchi) raised a point of order, saying Adamu’s removal did not follow due process. “I was not here yesterday (Wednesday), I saw it (news of removal) in the papers and television when you (Ike Ekweremadu) announced the removal of Senator Abdullahi Adamu as the leader of the Northern Senators Forum. “Your Excellency, I come from the North and I am an active member of the Northern Senators Forum. At no time have we met and put to question any of the leaders of the forum. “But it was brought to this place and it was announced; and some of our colleagues went to the press centre and made statements that referred to some of us as monkeys,” he said. Apparently referring to Senator Shehu Sani, Wakili, a retired customs officer, said the statement that the money of the NSF was swallowed by monkeys had breached on his privilege. “We are taking this political brinkmanship beyond the level we are supposed to take it. We are supposed to be wise men. “The fact that I am not privy and the fact that the Northern Senators Forum was dragged, my privilege has been breached because nobody called me for a meeting. Senator Barau Jibrin, secretary of the forum, had never called a meeting. Senator Dino Melaye, the public relations officer of the forum, had never called for a meeting,” he said. He accused the Spokesperson of the Senate, Aliyu Sabi Abdullahi (APC, Niger), of leading senators to address the press on NSF which he said was outside his schedule as senate spokesperson. “By this, I want to say that my privilege has been breached because my constituents and other concerned northerners have also expressed disgust that why are we trying to destroy our leadership. I want the senate to take judicial note of what I am saying,” he said. Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, who presided over the plenary, noted the point of order without taking any action. However, Senator Sabi faulted Wakili’s claim, saying, “Wakili made some comments alluding to the fact that as the spokesman of the senate, I led some people to the press centre. I want to make it categorically clear that as the spokesman of the senate, I have always tried to remain much focused on defending the institution of the senate. “I went to the media centre as part of my statutory responsibility to brief the senate press corps on happenings within the senate, of course I gave them brief on the various bills and specifically I also spoke on the bill I sponsored. “I made it very clear that I am not holding brief for the forum even though I am a member. I am here to speak for the senate; the clips are there, and if anybody has any information to the contrary, I challenge him to bring that clip out,” he said.