A few days after his demise, the mood at the Jos residence of late Brigadier General John Nanzip Shagaya (rtd) can best be described as gloomy. Many dignitaries, relatives, former associates and acquaintances have been trooping into the home of the onetime senator for Plateau South to pay homage to a man described by many as a patriot and pillar of support for his people. Tragically, the accident that claimed his life on Sunday occurred just 347 days after the death of his wife, Pauline Shagaya. His youngest son, John Nanzip Shagaya (Jnr) said a few days before his demise, the late senator had met with friends and church members to discuss modalities for his wife’s one year remembrance service and was to carry on with the plan after his return from Langtang. But that was not to be. Recalling his last encounter with his father, the young Shagaya said his father’s last instruction to him after he wished him a safe trip was the usual, “take care of the house.” Shagaya had also parted with his domestic staff on a good note that Friday morning. His cook, David Likita said, “We were together on Friday morning before he travelled. I prepared him oat and he said he wanted just four pieces of yam to take with it. The night before, he had informed me that he was going to Langtang for burial on Friday to return on Sunday, he asked me to prepare to follow him to Abuja on Monday when he returned.” Dignitaries such as the deputy governor of Plateau State, Prof. Sonni Tyoden; the Gbong Gwom Jos, Jacob Gyang Buba; former Military Governor of Plateau State, Major General Mohammed Chris Ali (rtd) and a host of others who visited to pay their respect, eulogised the former Minister of Internal Affairs, describing him as a hero and patriot whose love for Nigeria was unshaken. Governor Simon Bako Lalong had in a statement described the death of Shagaya as a painful reality which has created a vacuum in the top advisory echelon which will rub the state and nation of the wealth of his experience. Also, the Senator representing Plateau South, Jeremiah Useni said, “I lost a brother in Brig. Gen.John Nanzip Shagaya (rtd). He left behind him indelible footprints of professionalism in the military, political and personal life.” A former Minister of Information (State), Hon. Ibrahim Dasuki Nakande, described the late Shagaya as a compassionate and detribalised Nigerian. Nakande said, “I worked with him while he was the interim chairman of the APC in Plateau State and I was the secretary, he was a fair and just person, Nigeria has lost a man of peace.” The Gbong Gwom Jos, Gyang Jacob Buba, who led members of the state traditional council to the home of the deceased described Shagaya who until his death held the traditional title of Danburam Lantang II as a loyal and dedicated son of not just the Tarok people but the state and the nation. Major General Chris Ali (rtd) wrote in the condolence register that; “An illustrious father and a patriot, your leadership style was second to none, may God almighty give his family the fortitude to bear the loss.” Though Shagaya’s death is seen as a great lost to the state and nation, the vacuum created by his absence will mostly be felt by members of his immediate family. The general’s eldest son, Colonel Nansak Danjuma Shagaya, described his late father as a role model and a man of wisdom who has inspired many. Col. Shagaya said though he had spoken with his father the day he made the trip to Langtang, he didn’t have a premonition that it would be their last conversation. He had always admired his father, which explained why he followed his career foot part.