A 20-year-old man, Chukwudi Onoh, will have to convince an Ejigbo magistrate’s court in Lagos that he did not only rape a girl who has accused him of the crime, he also didn’t record the act on video and had been blackmailing her with it. The police have dragged Onoh before the court for allegedly video-recording a young lady while raping her following a petition she wrote to the Area Commander, Area P, Alagbado, alleging blackmail against the accused. The, prosecutor, Inspector Kenneth Asibor, told the court that in the petition, the victim, whose name the police kept under wraps, claimed Onoh invited her to his house, located at 7, Lizben Street, Surulere, Alagbado, Lagos, and drugged her before having sex with her. Asibor said, “The accused offered the victim a bowl of fish pepper soup and water while she was in his house. She slept off immediately after consuming the fish pepper soup, and while she was sleeping the accused started video-recording the victim while he was raping her. Hours later when she woke up, she found herself naked and lying on the accused’s bed.” The prosecutor further said that a few days later, the accused called the victim on phone asking her to pay some money if she did not want her nude pictures circulated on social media “for the world to see.” He also said that the victim, accompanied by a friend of Onoh called Phillip, went to appeal to him, but that the accused said the only way he would destroy the recording was for the girl to also have sex with Phillip, a request which the prosecutor said she accepted. He said that the victim got another shocker when she realised that the accused had made another video of her having sex with Phillip. Asibor said that the sum of N60,000 had been extorted from the victim since the incident occurred. He said that the accused was arrested, while Phillip had been on the run. Onoh, who was arraigned on a two-count charge of conspiracy and sexual assault, however, pleaded not guilty. The presiding magistrate, Mrs J.O.E. Adeyemi Ajayi, granted him bail in the sum of N200,000, with two sureties in like sum. The court ordered that one of the sureties must be a land owner, with documents to that effect. Onoh was remanded in prison custody pending when he will perfect his bail conditions.