A study, ‘Africa Beyond 2030: Leveraging Science and Innovation to Secure Sustainable Development Goals,’ published by the African Academy of Sciences (AAS), is advocating for the reform of African national science, technology and innovation policies to augment development that drives progress in achieving Sustainable Development Goals. The study, which details specific policy measures that countries must individually and collectively take to leverage STI to achieve the SDGs, is based on extensive literature review, surveys and interviews with scientists, policymakers and development partners between 2016 and 2017. Executive Director of the African Academy of Sciences, Prof Nelson Torto, said in a statement,  “We need to bring science and technology to bear on sustainable development priorities to ensure a long term and intergenerational solution-driven agenda for eradicating poverty and improving lives of African people.” According to the AAS’ Policy and Strategy Manager, Evelyn Namubiru-Mwaura, the existence of the STI policies demonstrates a political will to advance the sector. Namubiru-Mwaura who said, “There is also a dual commitment to achieve SDGs,”also added that, “Governments must exploit the interface between these two sides of the same coin to promote the equitable distribution of STI benefits and maximise impact of their sustainable development agendas and prom.” The study calls for harnessing STI to achieve SDGs and requires policy reform supported by strong budgets, skilled personnel and a legislative monitoring and evaluation component to assess impact. In the past, STI policies have been criticized for short changing M&E frameworks and budgets and failing to incorporate national strategies on sustainable development. These may have resulted in weak government capacity and poor public understanding and ownership. It also recommends leveraging domestic funding to support STI to ensure that the science agenda is led and driven by the sustainable development priorities of the Continent and organizing a pan-African and national science-business-society dialogues to contribute expertise, funding and infrastructure to promote research and innovation in Africa. The AAS is a Pan-African organisation headquartered in Kenya, which aims to drive sustainable development in Africa through science, technology and innovation.