A police corporal posted to Jiwa junction, Gwagwa, Abuja, has been arrested by the Kubwa Area Command for allegedly shooting to death a passenger in the area. Some witnesses who spoke to the City News during the weekend said the suspect was conducting a stop and search on motorists along with three other colleagues around 8:30p.m. last Sunday, when he stopped a tricycle popularly known as Keke Napep going to Karmo and demanded its rider to park. The witness explained that the passengers on board the tricycle were ordered to present themselves for searching, and one of them who was sitting at the front row by the side of the rider, made attempt to flee but was grabbed by the suspect and a wrap of Indian hemp was found in his possession. Another witness said other passengers were let to go by the three policemen at the junction, while the victim was ordered by the suspect to follow him to the Gwagwa police division for further investigation. “But the victim freed himself from the grip of the policeman and started to run, but again, the police man chased him and when he  couldn’t catch him, he shot him. “The incident had already drawn a crowd of onlookers at the checkpoint, and when the sound of gunshot rent the air, the  crowd surged forward to know the fate of the victim and when the policeman realised he had killed the victim, he attempted to flee. The mob made to grap him but the shot in the air and the crowd retreated. A brother to the deceased who gave the name of the victim as Buhari Abba, said his brother who hailed from Alkaleri Local Government Area of Bauchi State, was doing business at the tomato market, Deidei, following his graduation from a Polytechnic in their state. He added that he had been buried two days after the incident after his corpse was released from the Kubwa General Hospital by the police. When contacted, the Police Area Commander in charge of Kubwa area command, ACP Alfa Jibrin confirmed the incident, adding that the suspect had undergone some medical treatment following some injuries he sustained from the mob action, and that he would be handed over to the FCT police command’s CID on Monday for further investigation.