A communal clash has ensued between Offa, in Offa Local Government, and Ijagbo, in Oyun Local Government areas of Kwara State over land ownership. The clash, according to sources, over the said parcel of land in an area called Tade and Adeleke, has been on for the past 10 years but mutual understanding had been reached twice. A source also said that the fight was between one family from Offa and another family from Ijagbo on the said land, and a case on it had been taken to court. The source added that the judgment by the court favoured the Offa family, while the other party felt aggrieved by it. It was alleged that some youths from Offa had stormed the disputed area early yesterday and started destroying the community hall built on the land and some Ijagbo youth retaliated. It was also gathered that efforts by the police to calm the situation proved abortive, which led to the drafting of naval officers to calm the situation. The roads leading to the two communities were littered with burnt tyres, while gunshots were heard. Three persons were believed to have been injured and taken to the hospital. Human and vehicular movement in the area had been restricted. The state Police Public Relations Officer, Ajayi Okasanmi, said the situation was under control, as the police were working hard to ensure the crisis did not escalate.  Meanwhile, the Kwara State Governor, Dr Abdulfatah Ahmed, has warned that the government would deal decisively with perpetrators of any communal clash between the two towns. Gov Ahmed, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Abdulwahab Oba, expressed concern over what he called the “unwarranted and absolutely avoidable acts” in the two communities. He expressed concerns that some individuals could take laws into their hands despite various established platforms to seek redress and settle emerging communal matters. Dr Ahmed directed security agencies in the state to arrest and bring perpetrators of the crisis to justice and restore law and order in the communities, saying the government would not condone any breach of peace, harmony and tranquility under any guise in the state.