The military and the police in Yobe State are currently embroiled in recriminations over the events that led to the abduction of students from a boarding school. Governor Ibrahim Gaidam two days ago said military withdrawal from Dapchi made it possible for Boko Haram insurgents to attack Government Girls Science  and Technical College and abduct 110 students. The Army described the allegation as not only “unfortunate, but also very far from the truth.” Col Onyema Nwachukwu, Deputy Director Public Relations, Theatre Command Operation Lafiya Dole, in a statement yesterday said the Army handed the security of the town to the police when troops left to support another military formation that came under insurgents attack. However, the police in Damaturu said the statement by the military “is not correct and untrue.” The Army’s reaction yesterday first dwelt on its achievements in the counter insurgency war being waged under Operation Lafiya Dole. The statement by Col Onyema Nwachukwu said: “Several communities and Local Governments that were hitherto under siege of the insurgents have been liberated and the insurgents pushed out. “While troops continue to trail and decimate the remnants of the insurgents in the hinterlands, the security of the liberated communities and towns fall in the hands of the sister security agencies. “The recent dislodgement and further decimation of the insurgents from their enclaves in the Sambisa and the Lake Chad Islands are testimonials to the effective operations of troops against the insurgents. “Additionally, troops are regularly conducting long range patrols, raids and ambushes to canalise and take out fleeing insurgents. “Given all these efforts, it is very astonishing and shocking that such unfortunate comment and allegation is been touted against the loyal and dedicated troops of Operation Lafiya Dole. Contrary to the comments being circulated, troops earlier deployed in Dapchi were redeployed to reinforce troops at Kanama following attacks on troops’ location at the - Nigerien border. “This was on the premise that Dapchi has been relatively calm and peaceful and the security of Dapchi town was formally handed over to the Nigeria Police Division located in the town. “Troops’ redeployment was therefore done in tandem with the exigencies of operation and not as misconstrued. It is thus obligatory, to state that the allegation reportedly attributed to the Governor of Yobe state is misleading and misinforming. “We reiterate our commitment and determination to carrying out our mandate to fight Boko Haram terrorists in the north east. “We also implore members of the public to continue to support us with credible information on the whereabouts of the Boko Haram terrorists. “We would also like to assure the parents, government and the good people of Yobe State and indeed members of the public that we will not rest on our oars in the search and rescue of the abducted school girls and any other persons held captive by the terrorists”. Military didn’t formally handover to us – Police The Commissioner of Police Yobe State, Mr. Sumonu A. Abdulmaliki, however denied there was a formal handing over of Dapchi town to the Nigeria Police Division in Dapchi. Mr. Abdulmaliki in a signed stamen in Damaturu yesterday said: “It is not correct and untrue, as there was no time that the military informed the Police of their withdrawal consult or handed over their locations in Dapchi town to the Police. “The whole of Yobe State is still under Security Emergency which the Police, the Military and other security agencies are battling to ensure lasting peace. “Members of the public in Yobe State are implored to disregard and discountenance this claim that the Military formally handed the security of Dapchi town to the Nigeria Police as untrue, unfounded and misleading. “The Yobe State Police Command will continue to cooperate with other security agencies in ensuring safety and protection of lives and property of people of Yobe State.”