The National Security Adviser, Major General Muhammad Babagana Munguno (Rtd) said yesterday that Nigerian Airforce has deployed 20 aircraft in Maiduguri and 80 others on their way to search 24 hours non stop for the missing Dapchi schoolgirls. The NSA, who spoke during a courtesy call to Governor Ibrahim Gaidam at the Government House Damaturu, said that within the last few days, the search activities have been stepped up. "We have also been made aware of the fact that the Nigerian air force will step up its operation regardless of the very hard and severe weather condition. The Nigeria police force has also done a lot in supporting these operations as well as the civil defence corps. Your Excellency, this so far is the beginning of the operations in the theatre. "I am directly involved with all the security agencies. From here I will be moving further up towards the Lake Chad region and we are going to visit border areas, Nigeria’s border areas with some neighbouring countries. "I have already been speaking with other groups also, local people who have great understanding of the terrain and the conditions among the local people. Munguno said the visit to Yobe was to show solidarity not just to the governor and members of  Yobe State Government but indeed by extension to all the good people of Yobe State and to let them know that they identified with the current situation in which the good people of Yobe State find themselves in. " I have a personal message of goodwill from President Muhammadu Buhari to you. Even though other members of the (federal) government have come to commiserate and identify with you, my own visit is not too different from theirs but as his principal adviser on security issues, I felt it’s necessary to come along with members of the security community, especially those currently engaged in the search for the over 100 missing girls of Government Girls Science Technical College Dapchi. "Your Excellency I know a lot has been said locally in the media and the international community. A lot of analysis has been made; lots of suggestions have been made but what I want to reassure you is the commitment of President Muhammadu Buhari in getting all these girls back. This is primary responsibility that rests not just on his shoulder but on mine as well as all my colleagues who are here and those who are operating elsewhere," he said.