The Yobe State Governor, Alhaji Ibrahim Gaidam, yesterday offered automatic employment to 38 graduates of the state university who graduated with First Class degree. The governor announced this at the maiden convocation ceremony of the university, which held in Damaturu. A total of 2, 290 students from five academic sets beginning from 2012/2013 to 2016/2017, received various degree and diploma certificates from the institution. The governor, who is the visitor to the university, was also conferred with an honorary doctorate degree of letters at the convocation ceremony. Governor Gaidam said his administration will continue to help the university grow. “We are optimistic that with sustained efforts and commitment, we will realize our aim of making the university a living testimony of the humble contributions of our administration to the educational advancement of our state and the progress of man in the struggle against ignorance, prejudice, poverty and disease”, he said. He said that his administration has continued to prioritise education by making big budgetary allocations to the sector. “We have been implementing free education policy aimed at improving access, quality, equity and gender balancing by devoting over 26 per cent of our budgetary allocation in 2017 and 2018 to the education sector in keeping with the UNESCO recommendations. I would like to state that this university has recorded tremendous growth in leaps and bounds since its full establishment in 2009.  This growth is visible in terms of infrastructural expansion, human capital development as well as in the academic sphere of teaching, learning and research which has continued to date. Let me stress that whatever achievement we recorded is indeed through team work.  For this reason, I urge all the stakeholders to continue to work in that spirit”, he said. At the end, he called on universities in the country to join in the campaign of national rebirth to revolutionize the minds of citizens against all forms of crimes and vices, while observing that education must be for a purpose far greater than obtaining degrees or certificate but to prepare the university graduates morally and economically. “I urge the university to make entrepreneurship training compulsory so that any graduate of Yobe State University can be self-reliant without even getting any government employment. The task will be made easier as we already have a fully established centre for Entrepreneurship Development,” he said. The Vice Chancellor of the university, Prof. Yakubu Mukhtar, said the institution has made great strides in the last eleven years.