The third Federal government delegation on Tuesday visited Yobe state over the unfortunate incidence of the missing schoolgirls in Government Girls Science and Technical College Dapchi. The delegation include the National Security Adviser, Major General Babagana Monguno (rtd) and Chief of Air Staff, Air Marshal Sadique B. Abubakar. Speaking during a courtesy call to Governor Ibrahim Gaidam, at the Government House Damaturu, Monguno said, it was a solidarity visit to government and good people of Yobe state over the unfortunate incidence. “We are here to identify with the current situation the people of Yobe state find themselves in.  I have a goodwill message from President Muhammadu Buhari to commensurate with you though other federal government delegations have come. “It is the primary responsibility that rest not only on the President’s shoulder but on mine and all my colleagues who are here. “So far within the last few days activities have been structured by meeting the President to discuss the situation.  The Theatre Command has started working hard on the search 24 hours non-stop.  The Nigerian Air force has deployed 20 Aircrafts in Maiduguri and 8 others are on their way.  So far 200 hours have been spent searching for the missing girls”, he said. He said measures have been taken by the federal government to forestall reoccurrence, while continuous effort is made to push harder until the girls are rescued. In his response, Governor Gaidam said the visit has energized him and serve as motivating factor that is aimed at ensuring that the missing schoolgirls returned to their parents safely and in good health. “There is no reason whatsoever to remove Army at Dapchi because it is one of the major settlements close to neighbouring Republic of Niger associated with porous terrain that should be protected,” the governor said. The governor further appealed to the federal government to come up with comprehensive strategy of mopping up remnants of the insurgents in all their hideouts within and outside the state.