The National Assembly has transmitted a new version of the amendment made to the 2010 electoral act to President Muhammadu Buhari for assent, Daily Trust has gathered. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly matters (Senate), Senator Ita Enang, confirmed to Daily Trust that the bill has been transmitted to the President through his office. The transmission, our correspondent reports, came three months after the president rejected the earlier amendment made citing constitutional matters. A top management source in the National Assembly told our correspondent that the bill was transmitted to the president on June 25. The report of the conference committee on the new version of the act was passed on June 7, this year before the lawmakers proceeded on the three weeks Sallah break. “It has been transmitted to the president for assent so that the new law can be used in the forthcoming 2019 general elections,” the source said, asking not to be named. The rejection of the previous bill led to the establishment of the Parliamentary Support Group (PSG), a pro Buhari group at the National Assembly. One of the contentious issues in the rejected bill was the change in election sequence. The controversy over it led to the suspension of Senator Ovie Omo-Agege (APC, Delta). His return to the Senate in April witnessed the stealing of Mace. The Deputy Senate President, Ike Ekweremadu, had while speaking during the passage of the bill on June 7 this year said the controversial clauses in the bill had been removed from the new version. “Let me quickly make some quick clarifications. One is that when we passed the Electoral Act earlier in the year, the President returned it with observations. From the report we have here, it means that those areas that appear to be controversial or where the president had some issues. “No matter how we feel, whether we like it or not, whether we believe in what he said or not, that is not the issue now. What is important now is that to save the other provisions (clauses), our committee resolved to remove those aspects. They may come up maybe some other time but for now, they are not part of this process. That has been removed to make the rest non-controversial,” he said. Buhari had in his letter rejecting the previous bill said: “The amendment to the sequence of elections in Section 25 of the principal act, may infringe upon the constitutionally guaranteed discretion of the Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) to organize, undertake and supervise elections provided in Section 15(A) of the third statue to the Constitution; “The amend to Section 138 of the principal act to delete two crucial grounds upon which an election may be challenged by candidates, unduly limits the rights of candidates in elections to a free and fair electoral review process; “The amendment to Section 152 Subsection 325 of the Principal Act may raise Constitutional issues over the competence of the National Assembly to legislate over local government elections.” Chairman of the Senate committee on INEC, Senator Suleiman Nazif (APC, Bauchi) had while presenting the report explained they deleted Sections 25 and 152 (3)-(5) in the proposed Bill based on the President’s observations. The section dealt on the controversial election sequence. He said they retained Section 138 (c) and (d) as contained in the Principal Act. “Further amend Section 49 by including a new subsection (3) which provides that “ Where a Smart Card Reader deployed for accreditation of voters fails to function in any unit and a new card reader is not deployed, the election in that unit shall be cancelled and another election shall be scheduled within 24 hours”; and “Amend Section 140 to include a new subsection (c) which states that “Where the election is postponed due to omission of a political party’s name or logo, the Commission’s Officer responsible for such printing of party names or logos commits an offence and is liable to a fine of Two Million Naira (N2, 000,000) or imprisonment for 2 years or both,” he said. “The bill is undergoing standard operational procedure and the time of the President has just begun. The most important thing is that the National Assembly has transmitted it to the President through me. It has left the National Assembly,” he said. The Senior Special Assistant to the President on National Assembly matters (Senate), Senator Ita Enang, who confirmed transmission of the bill however declined comment on its content. “I will not speak on it (content of the bill) because they worked on it in the committee of whole and it was in the eyes of the whole public,” he told Daily Trust by phone last night. Daily Trust reports that stakeholders are still advocating for changes in the country’s electoral laws, with many saying that the nation may end up with a constitutional crisis in the event the 2019 presidential election goes into runoff, which is expected to hold not more than seven days after the announcement of results. “Runoff elections to the office of President or Governor of a State (if any) will be held within 7 days after the announcement of the result of the election,” according to the Constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, 1999 (as amended)