About $515.8m or N157bn at official N305/dollar exchange rate is still owed the federal government as signature bonus by oil companies more ten years after the last oil bid rounds were held, Daily Trust reports. Signature bonus is a premium paid on concession granted to a winner of an oil block or for renewal of expired oil licence. Multiple industry sources familiar with what transpired in all past bid rounds blamed the federal government’s inability to collect the outstanding debts on weak enforcement, coupled with delays in resolving disputes over oil blocks controversially awarded to some companies. The delay in recovering these signature bonus funds has continued to deny the government badly needed revenues not only to fund the budget and critical infrastructure but also human capital development for the oil industry. It is mostly an upfront payment made to the government through the Department of Petroleum Resources (DPR) for the right to develop a block commercially after a company wins a bid round for an oil block. Depending on the agreement, payment for signature bonus may be spread over a period of time. But the maximum period allowed, according to the Nigeria Extractives Industries Transparency Initiative (NEITI) in its 2015 audit of the oil sector, is 120 days after which the license will be revoked. The DPR has not replied official Freedom of Information Act (FOI) dated May 9, 2018 from Daily Trust requesting details of outstanding signature bonus payments and the concessions for which the payments are outstanding. “Nobody will give you that, do you know what it means? It is a very sensitive matter?” said a top official from the Lagos headquarters of the regulator when contacted on phone if he could volunteer information on the outstanding payments. But Sunday Babalola, who was the DPR Head of Basinal Assessment and Lease Administration on June 1, 2016 told an ad-hoc committee of the House of Representatives probing oil prospecting and mining licenses that 37 oil firms owe the country $515,870,250 as signature bonuses for oil block licenses won during the 2005, 2006 and 2007 bid rounds respectively. At the two-day investigative hearing, Mr. Babalola told the lawmakers that $255.1m, $155.1m and $105.7m were outstanding signature bonuses for the periods respectively. Since then there has been no public information from either the DPR or any allied agency in the oil sector about the outstanding signature bonus owed to the government. Spokesman for the DPR Paul Osu did not reply several text messages and phone calls made to him to clarify the outstanding signature bonus payments and what the agency is doing to recover the funds. However, an assistant director in the Lagos-headquartered agency said the DPR would soon move against the indebted companies. “The sanction is a straightforward one. We will soon revoke the blocks and assign them to someone else who can pay the signature bonus,” said the official on condition he would not to be named because he was not authorized to speak for DPR. With respect to recovery of undisputed outstanding signature bonus amount due to the government, the DPR in 2012 testified during a government audit of its activities that it had written letters to the various concessionaires to request payment. But the Special Task Force set up by the government to review the activities of the DPR in 2012 concluded there was no evidence that the agency has taken any further action to recover the unpaid amounts. Daily Trust found that the DPR only recently launched a debt reclamation crusade on the directive of the federal government to embark on immediate recovery of all debts owed the federation by exploration and production companies. The DPR issued a public notice on its website to indebted companies instructing them to “take necessary steps to offset all their outstanding payments due on or before 25th May, 2018 or be sanctioned accordingly by the federal government of Nigeria.” N157bn has opportunity costs Payments of signature bonuses are important for the government for many reasons. Monies that will come as signature bonus is one important revenue source the Nigerian government plans to partly fund the 2018 budget President Muhammadu Buhari signed recently which had a total proposed spending of N9.1trillion. The government, according to Minister of Budget and National Planning, Udo Udoma Udoma, is targeting to generate N114.3 billion from signature bonus to finance the N9.1 trillion budget. “National budgets, including Nigeria’s, are often drafted based on expected revenues for the coming year - so the expectation of revenue that is never received can lead to a budget deficit or debt issues for a country,” said Alex Malden Governance Associate at NRGI in a mail from London. The Petroleum Technology Development Fund (PTDF) is the government agency responsible for the training and education of Nigerians in the oil and gas industry and the PTDF Establishment Act (Decree No. 25) of 1973 provides that “all signature bonuses should be credited into the PTDF account.” But information made available by PTDF to NEITI in one of its audits of the PTDF in 2013 showed that the government has continued to contravene the PTDF Act by pegging annual disbursement to the agency at $100m. What FG can do with N157bn A part of the fund is urgently needed to train more Nigerians on oil and gas related fields at local and overseas universities. It is enough for the PTDF to utilise and train hundreds of them on welding, drilling, subsea and marine engineering and other capacity building programs in the oil sector. Should the government decide to instead fund the Niger Delta Ministry and Niger Delta Development Commission (NDDC) from signature bonus payments alone in 2018, the amount is enough to fund the two institutions, which have capital spending allocations of N53.89 billion and N71.20 billion in the 2018 budget. Based on the 2018 budget, the government planned to spend N65 billion for the Presidential Amnesty Programme in the Niger Delta region. Part of N157bn outstanding signature bonus could fund the programme intended to keep militants at bay. The money is also adequate to complete critical road projects including the East-West Road which has a provision of about N17.32bn in 2018. How corruption has held up payments Consultants including lawyers, energy analysts and bankers, who either participated or are familiar with what transpired during the 2005, 2006 and 2007 oil bid rounds, identified corruption as one major factor that has held up the more than $515.8m outstanding signature bonus payments. “In Nigeria, signature bonuses have been important to the OPL 245 corruption case,” the London-based Governance Associate at NRGI, Alex Malden, said by mail adding that the most contentious aspect related to the potential non-payment of signature bonuses is their role in corruption cases. “If a signature bonus payment is due and is never received in the corresponding government account, this could be an indication that they have potentially gone to another source through corruption,” Malden said in a mail from London. Four other experts interviewed for this report who craved anonymity for concerns their comments may jeopardize their relationship with government and the concerned companies said because some blocks were corruptly awarded, enforcing signature bonus payment became difficult. The report of the 2012 Petroleum Revenue Special Task Force chaired by Nuhu Ribadu found that $204m was outstanding and due to the federal government from nine of the total concessions allocated at the discretion of the office of the petroleum minister in 2008, 2009 and 2011. “But I think it is not just an issue of discretionary awards because even before the public announcement of the bidding people already knew blocks that were available,” one lawyer who participated in the 2007 bid round said in a phone interview adding that the declaration of winners who didn’t necessarily win was another issue. “Where I find hard to wrap my head around is someone says they are entitled to a license and they haven’t paid signature bonus. How did that happen?” he asked. Enforcement problems A senior governance officer with the NRGI based in the United States Aaron Sayne said by mail that, “Reviews of past rounds found many cases where companies offered unreasonably high or low bonuses, had their amounts reduced after the round, received licenses without having paid their bonuses, paid late or paid into unclear accounts.” Dr. Adeoye Adefulu, who is a lawyer with Odujinrin & Adefulu law firm, identified enforcement problems as one of the reasons the monies have not been paid. “Are there signature bonuses outstanding? Yes! So, why haven’t they been paid? I would say it is probably a problem of enforcement,” said Dr. Adefulu, who leads the law firm’s Energy Practice & Real Estate and Mining Teams. “It seems some people assume that they have the licence and the payment of the signature bonus is a condition subsequent, it rather should be a condition precedent,” he said.