Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Barrister Boss Mustapha has said that the Air Force Institute of Technology (AFIT) is uniquely positioned to bridge that gap where security and commercialization of aviation meet to expand the frontiers of the industry. Speaking at the 47th Convocation ceremony of the institute yesterday in Kaduna, the SGF said the aviation industry demands high security especially in light of global challenges where airplanes and unmanned aerial vehicles have become tools of subversion and crime.  The SGF who lamented that currently many Nigerian airlines are managed and maintained by foreign personnel noted that it would be admirable to have a mostly domestic sector where airline maintenance and operations are handled by locals.  He noted that for there is need to overhaul the civil aviation to become more security conscious and the domestication of aviation applications and services through active civil military partnerships.  He added, “Mr. President intends to resuscitate the National carrier. Extensive plans are already underway to achieve this very laudable plan by a President who has the welfare of his people in mind. This must be exciting news for AFIT as the workforce for that airline should ideally be more than 60% local. Considering the cost of training aviation personnel against the economic realities of Nigeria, the military must be equipped to train and supply personnel to the civil aviation industry.  “AFIT as I stated earlier is poised to achieve milestones which will impact very positively on the industry. However, developing indigenous capacity no doubt requires unity of purpose and synergy of efforts among the various stakeholders in the Nation’s aviation sector.  “When Mr. President assented to the bill upgrading AFIT to a university; it must have been with a view to raising globally competitive graduates. As you move into the world from here, please note that the Federal Government has various youth empowerment initiatives like N-Power and You Win Connect. You are all qualified and encouraged to participate in these programmes and use the knowledge acquired here to make a difference in the Nation.  “Concerted strategies must be adopted to focus on bridging the knowledge and skills gap of Nigerian aviators in line with international standards. One of the policies of Mr. President is to create indigenous technological capacity both in the military and civilian space in Nigeria. This can be evidenced by the creation of specialized tertiary Institutions of the Army, Navy and Air Force by Mr. President.  “Stakeholders in the industry which include both military and civilians must also engage in joint research efforts for the manufacture of aviation products and enhancement of quality personnel in airline services.”  He however urged commercial/civil partners to consider AFIT graduates for employment in their respective organizations to augment Government efforts to reduce the labour market.  Commandant Air Vice Marshal Cletus Udeagulu said, “In the field of research and development, AFIT has resulted in the production and test flight of the first model of the Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (UAV) codenamed AMEBO. The AMEBO project has since undergone extensive advancements both in design and production. It has also provided valuable experience and inputs into other Nigeria Air Force projects such as the GULMA and TSAIGUMI UAVs among others.  “Other notable projects include the Unmanned Ground Vehicle for the Improvised Explosive Device.  Following on these, the Institute will today present other various student and staff led research projects for the 2017/2018 Academic Year. Some of the projects include the Sun Tracker, Rocket Launcher Tester, Shock Absorber, Constructed Surveillance Airship and Fabricated Hexacopter amidst others."  Highlighting some challenges the institute is facing, he said, “The institute is yet to receive its take-off grant which was not captured in the year 2018 budget since the accent of its bill and obsolete infrastructure and workshop equipment because some of the infrastructure and equipment in AFIT were acquired in the late 70s and early 80s."  He noted that the institution presently has 16 officers with doctorate degrees in aerospace engineering which he said is an added advantage to the institution.