The Nigeria Army has released to the United Nations (UN) and the Borno State government a total of 183 children linked to Boko Haram insurgents for de-radicalization and necessary supports. Speaking at the handover ceremony in Maiduguri yesterday, the Chief of Army Staff, Lt.-Gen. Tukur Buratai, said the released children comprise eight girls and 175 boys. Buratai, represented by the Theatre Commander, Operations Lafiya Dole, Maj.-Gen. Rogers Nicolas, said the children deserved special attention and training. “All children arrested, detained and interrogated should be immediately released; and so, we are going to hand over a total of 183 children associated with arms and terrorism consists of boys and girls to the UN and the Borno State Government,” he said, adding, the Nigerian military observes best international practices during its operations. Also speaking, Governor Kashim Shettima, represented by the Commissioner for Women Affairs, Hajiya Fanta Babashehu, expressed gratitude to the Chief of Army Staff for releasing the children. Representative of the UN, Ibrahim Sesay, said since 2017, the United Nations International Children Education Fund (UNICEF) had supported the social and economic reintegration of more than 8,700 children released from armed groups. He said the UNICEF had helped the children trace their respective families at various communities, offering them psychosocial support, education, vocational training and informal apprenticeships and other opportunities to improve livelihoods. Mr. Sesay said, “We will be working with the Borno State Ministry of Women Affairs and Social Development and partners to provide the children with the assistance they need. “I also want to commend the action taken by the military and the authorities, it demonstrates a clear commitment to better protect children affected by the ongoing conflict.” He said the children would receive medical attention and psychosocial support before the process of reuniting them with their families and reintegrating them into society begins.