Dana Group has advised members of the public to disregard two false and malicious broadcast messages circulating on social media requesting them not to fly with Dana Air and another message urging Nigerians not to buy a ‘’Dana’’ branded rice that arrived the country from Pakistan and did not pass Health standard because it brings a virus only seen in Pakistan. This comes few days after another message purportedly issued by the General Overseer of Omega Ministries, Apostle Johnson Sulaiman asking Nigerians to avoid some land and air transport companies was dismissed by the affected firms. Dana Group in a statement on Monday by the Media / Communications Manager, Dana Air, Kingsley Ezenwa said those behind the fake message were mischief makers. "While we would ordinarily not want to dignify the perpetrators and their paymasters with a response, we felt the need to unearth their puerile, senseless and deliberate act of peddling two false broadcast messages about a single brand in one day. "It is either their pay master is so clueless to have advised them to circulate both messages in one day or the perpetrators decided to be overzealous", the statement said. He added that Dana brand has been in Nigeria for over 45 years contributing positively to the Nigerian  economy with quality products in the areas of Aviation, Steel, Manufacturing, Automobile, Banking, Real Estate, Health, and Beverage, just to mention a few. He explained that Dana Group  as a proudly Nigerian brand stopped the importation of rice in 2015 in line with the desires and commitment of both the outgoing and incoming administrations to grow local capacity for quality rice production in Nigeria. The statement said, "Dana Air on its part has been battling and navigating these mischief-makers since inception in 2008, when the airline took the industry by storm by offering pocket-friendly fares, on-time departures, world-class in-flight service and above all, safe and reliable air transport, which the flying public never felt was possible at the time. "The peddlers of this baseless broadcast messages have also refused to come to terms with Dana Air’s towering status in the industry having flown over 2.7 million passengers in the last 9 years of its operation, with a creative, passionate and dogged management team that have seen the airline survive even the worst operational challenges in the industry." "We therefore wish to reassure our teeming guests that their safety and comfort remains top-priority to us at Dana Air and our unwavering adherence to civil aviation regulations and global best practices are the reasons for our latest consecutive international recognitions." "We advise the perpetrators to desist from this evil act of working at cross-purposes with a conglomerate that has shown massive commitment and contributed immensely to the growth and development of our country, by providing jobs for our youths, supporting worthy causes with its broad CSR initiatives and production of quality products which can compete with global brands and for the well-being of Nigerians." 