…and need for increased funding for bio-tech research A Professor of Food and Industrial Microbiology, University of Uyo, Prof. Comfort Inyang, has said that not all micro-organisms are bad as some play very vital role in medicine and aid digestion of food, among others. Inyang said microbes are everywhere and without them, there would be negative consequences on both humans and the environment. She said microbes play a very vital in food safety, industrial production, the environment, oil and energy industry, and holds great promise in the area of nanotechnology. She revealed that microbes are 14,000 more than people on earth and add 1.5kg on the body weight of people. Speaking in Uyo during the 62nd inaugural lecture of the University of Uyo on the topic, ‘Ubiquitous Microbes: We are not all Bad’, Inyang who is the first female professor in the Faculty of Science and Department of Microbiology in the institution said without microbes, humans will not be able to carry out their daily activities. “Microbes play a very vital role in medicine; micro-organisms are medically indispensable. They are used for the production of antibiotics and vaccines. Microbes have provided many industrial products that have profoundly changed our lives. “Micro-organisms can be used in the cleanup of the environment. Waste generated from refineries can be treated with micro-organisms,” she said. The professor, who said food-borne diseases present a wide spread and growing public health problems in both developed and developing countries, encouraged nursing mothers to feed their babies with freshly prepared milk or store unfinished milk in the refrigerator. Inyang also said that ginger extract is a good natural preservative that can be used in foods. The don therefore called on the Federal Government to increase funding of bio-technological researches in the country, saying that increased funding would checkmate the burial of great potentials in the academia. She also said the nation’s economy would be strengthened if Nigeria focused seriously on the emerging opportunities micro-organisms have to offer.