As part of efforts to combat driving under the influence of Alcohol and Drugs, the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC) has concluded plans to acquire breathalyzers for testing drunk drivers across the country. The Corps Marshal of the FRSC, Dr. Boboye Oyeyemi, disclosed this when he met with a team of Beer Sectoral Group (BSG) led by the Chairman, Mr. Jordi Borrut-Bel, to discuss the implementation process of a Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in that regard. In a statement by the Corps’ Public Education Officer, Bisi Kazeem, he said the MoU will catalyze the provision of Breathalyzers to enable the Corps run a Pilot scheme for its patrol teams within Kaduna Command, Lagos state Command and River state Command. He added that the Corps Marshal has designed the commencement of the pilot scheme to focus on Training of FRSC personnel on Driving under the Influence (DUI) projects, acquisition and deployment of Alcholizers for testing DUI, enforcement of DUI by field Operatives, and monitoring of enforcement of DUI. “Other aspects of the programme of action are: commencement of Drive Alcohol Free (DAF) campaign, FRSC/BSG to meet with FRSC stakeholders in the DAF campaign, FRSC/BSG to conduct survey on the Six Geopolitical zones on DAF campaign, Enlightenment of drivers and other road users on the dangers of drunk driving, deployment of Billboards on strategic routes across the country with “don’t drink and drive” messages. “The Corps Marshal equally appraised the BSG guests with the FRSC resolutions with respect to haulage transportation. “Dr. Oyeyemi intimated BSG on the following which may affect the movement of BSG Products: Single Operators of Haulage must register with the National Association of Road Transport Owners (NARTO), Compulsory registration with the Road Transport Safety Standardization Scheme (RTSSS) and the compulsory installation of Speed Limiters. “In his address, Chairman of BSG assured the Corps of their readiness to comply with FRSC standards and lead by example by preaching the need to install Speed Limiters to their members. He equally assured of the continuous collaboration with FRSC to campaign against drunk driving. “The Chairman thanked the Corps for its different programmes aimed at keeping the roads safe, and assured that they, as a body, will ensure members’ strict adherence to safety rules,” the statement read.