More details have emerged from Sunday’s attack on the Kaduna-Abuja expressway which left yet-to-be identified number of people killed and many others missing. Survivors of the incident, which took place at Gidan Busa, an obscure settlement between Katari and Jere, all in Kaduna State, said it happened around 7pm. However the police said four commuters were killed while five were injured in the dastardly act. Daily Trust reports that one of the persons killed was a former Commissioner of Education in Katsina State, Professor Halimatu Saadiya Idris. Her husband Abdullahi Mu’azu narrated to Daily Trust how his wife was killed. He said he was driving the car while the late professor was seated on the front passenger seat, adding that she did not die immediately after the gunmen shot at their car. “At about 80 to 90 kilometres from Kaduna, we came across the gunmen on the main road and they were shooting. There was no road block to show anyone was stopping us and they were just shooting maybe to kill. “Since nobody asked us to stop, we did not contemplate stopping and there was no roadblock or any object on the road. I was the one driving. Unfortunately, the bullet came through the passenger door where my wife was seated. It hit her on the shoulder, broke her hand and penetrated into her chest. “When we got to the hospital, they said she had already lost a lot of blood and there was nothing they could do for her. From Allah we came and to Allah she has returned, I pray that Allah grant her soul eternal rest,” he told Daily Trust at their home in Kaduna. The late former commissioner, a professor of zoology and veterinary parasitology, was buried at 1.20pm according to Islamic rites at the Isa Kaita Muslim cemetery after a funeral prayer led by the Chief Imam of Sultan Bello Mosque, Sheikh Sulieman Adamu at the Islamic Learning Centre mosque, Kaduna. Daily Trust also learnt that the funeral prayer for two other victims, including Saratu Kindi Zauro, was held at the National Mosque in Abuja, while another person who was critically injured was still receiving treatment at the Intensive Care Unit of the National Hospital Abuja. One of the survivors, who does not want his name mentioned, said they left Kaduna between 5:30 and 6:30 pm, and that by the time they reached close to the scene of the incident, they saw so many cars parked and they sensed danger. “We were also told to stop that suspected kidnappers have blocked the road. From where we stopped, which is just ahead of Katari heading towards Abuja, we could hear sounds of gunshots. “After some time, we saw some uniformed men coming from the direction of the incident. We were told that we could proceed. By the time we reached the scene, I saw a car with the number of Defence Headquarters with its rear shield shattered. I also saw dead bodies, which I did not count. Some were lying by road side, while some were inside their cars. I also saw some cars with no passengers inside and we were later told that the occupants were led into the bush by kidnappers.” The survivor also told Daily Trust that the casualty may be high because both lanes of the dual expressway were blocked. He also said that they had a hectic time passing the scene as a trailer sat on the road. Daily Trust learnt from other sources that the soldier killed was the driver of a Brigadier General. It was also learnt that the professor was taken to the 44 Nigerian Army Reference Hospital Kaduna. The late professor hailed from the ruling clan of Kogowa in Faskari local government area, but was raised in Kaduna by her father. Idris is survived by her husband and five children. Among those that attended the professor’s funeral were the deputy governor of Katsina State Alhaji Mannir Yakubu, the Special Assistant to Governor Nasir El-Rufai on Political Matters, Uba Sani, all commissioners and directors of the Katsina state civil service. El-Rufai said on his twitter handle that “the Kaduna State Government is working with the Federal Government & Security Agencies to ensure the Armed Robbery and Kidnappings along the Abj-Kad road, as well as within the state comes to an end. The life of every citizen matters.” The Kaduna State Police Command confirmed the incident through its spokesman, DSP Mukhtar Aliyu. The PPRO said in a statement that at “about 06:30pm on Sunday, the police received a distress call that a group of unidentified Armed Men blocked Kaduna-Abuja express road by Gidan Busa Village and opened fire indiscriminately at any vehicle on sight. “In swift response, teams of Police Men stormed the scene where the bandits were dislodged but sadly they had already killed four (4) commuters and injured five (5) others in their dastardly act. “Normalcy has been restored on the road with commuters moving safely without molestation. “The Police Command uses this medium to reassure the public that we are committed even than before to protect life and property of Nigerians, irrespective of time, venue and circumstance.” He called on the general Public to volunteer information to security agencies to assist them in ridding communities of such violent miscreants constituting threat to peaceful coexistence. Senator Representing Kaduna Central, Shehu Sani condemned the killing and promised to raise the issue on the floor of the Senate. Daily Trust reports when the runway of the Nnamdi Azikiwe Intrnational Airport Abuja was shut down for repairs, there was a heavy deployment of security operatives on the Kaduna-Abuja high way as traffic was diverted to Kaduna Airport. Also, the elites now prefer the Abuja-Kaduna train. But the story has changed. A motorist who commutes weekly on the Abuja-Bwari-Jere road which used to have highly visible police presence told Daily Trust that the security agents were not on the ground on Sunday when he passed the road. Outrage over attack Meanwhile, the attack has continued to elicit response from Nigerians, especially on the social media. Alkasim Abdulkadir‏ said, “Two reports out of several of killings recorded on the Abuja-Kaduna Expressway yesterday. Needless deaths ending dreams and bringing unbearable anguish to their families. Definitely we can come up with better ways to police our highways. We can do better…” Tunde Leye‏ said, “The Kaduna Abuja road is a metaphor to the selfishness of the Nigerian elite. When they had to travel that road [during the shutdown of the runway at the Abuja airport for repairs], it suddenly became secure. Once the runway was fixed and they don’t have to use it so much again, everyone else can die on the road. They don’t care.” Abubakar Evuti‏ said, “The insecurity on the Abuja-Kaduna is at an all-time high. The FG must now employ desperate measures to curtail it. News of kidnapping and murder are now too constant.” Muhammad Goje said, “So the armed robbers along Kaduna - Abuja highway no longer block roads, they just open fire on motorists, then after the cars stop, they rob the ones that are dead and kidnap the ones that survive.” Let’s seek divine intervention over insecurity - Katsina deputy gov Katsina State Deputy Governor, Alhaji Mannir Yakubu has called for divine intervention over the increasing spate of insecurity in the country. A statement by his media assistant, Ibrahim Musa Kallah said the deputy governor was speaking after attending the funeral prayer of Professor Saadiyya Idris, who was killed by bandits along Kaduna-Abuja Expressway on Sunday evening. Alhaji Yakubu led the Katsina State delegation to the prayer, which was also attended by the Katsina state Commissioner of Finance, some members of the state executive council and Kogon Katsina, district head Faskari. The deputy governor described the death of the Katsina state former commissioner of education as a great loss to the people of the state and the country at large. “He prayed that Allah forgive the deceased and grant her family the strength to bear the loss. “Alhaji Mannir Yakubu called on people not to relent in prayers for divine intervention on the security situation in the country,” the statement said. Daily Trust reports that there was also another delegation from the Ministry of Education in Katsina State, led by its Permanent Secretary Ibrahim Lawal who attended her funeral held in Kaduna. Others in the trip included Kabir Ruma, Musa Dankama, Hambali Alti, Naziru Shinkafi, Lawal Kerau and Danjuma Suleiman.