The Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) said it would this week release timetable for the conduct of elections to fill vacancies created by the demise of the senators representing Bauchi South and Katsina North, Ali Wakili and Mustapha Bukar. This, according to the commission, followed its receipt of a notice from the senate president, Bukola Saraki, over the two vacant senatorial seats. National Commissioner, Mohammed Haruna, who made this known at the weekend said the commission also received similar information from the Cross River State House of Assembly about the demise of the member representing Obudu 1 State Constituency in the House. The release read, “The INEC wishes to inform the public that it has today (Friday) received information from the President of the Senate about existing vacancies in the Bauchi South and Katsina North Senatorial Districts, occasioned by the death of the Senators representing the said districts. “The Commission will, in accordance with relevant constitutional and statutory provisions, issue a detailed timetable and schedule of activities next week leading to the conduct of the polls to fill the vacancies. “It should be noted that there have been reports in the media of the death of other representatives in the National as well as State Assemblies. However, these have not been formally communicated to the Commission and no vacancies have been declared by the Presiding officers of the respective Houses.” The INEC chairman, Prof. Mahmood Yakubu, had said on April 17, 2018 that the electoral body would organize four by- elections to fill vacancies in Takum State Constituency in Taraba State, Lokoja/Koton-Karfe Constituency in Kogi State, Bauchi South Senatorial District in Bauchi State, and Katsina North Senatorial District in Katsina State. There have been series of protests over the seeming refusal to declare the seats of the late federal lawmakers vacant by the Senate President and Speaker Yakubu Dogara of the House of Representatives.