Borno State governor Kashim Shettima’s Adviser on Communications and Strategy, Malam Isa Gusau on Monday graduated with a first class degree in Public Relations, Advertising and Digital Media at Middlesex University in London, United Kingdom. The graduation ceremony took place at the university’s main campus in Hendon, North London. It was attended by the Pro-Chancellor, Sir Michael Patridge, the Vice Chancellor, Professor Tim Blackman, board of governors and other senior officials. The university, with origins from 1878, runs campuses in Malta, Dubai, and Mauritius. Gusau was in 2017 admitted into Year 3 (the final undergraduate year in UK) after meeting direct entry qualifications and passed a credibility assessment test. His principal had granted his request for study leave and supported him, enabling his relocation to London from where he operated as spokesman throughout his academic year. As a direct entry student, Gusau’s previous school records only qualified him for admission without transfer of academic transcripts.  To achieve his target of first class, he needed to obtain distinction in minimum of 75 percent of all modules after first and second semester assessments. He surpassed the minimum requirement by obtaining distinction in all subjects (representing 100%) at the end of the two semesters. His dissertation, which markers rated as being “far above undergraduate standard” was graded 1/20, the highest category of distinction. The dissertation, it is presumed, could be the first major academic research that is specific on examining areas of convergence, interdependence, influences and conflicts between Nigerian journalists and public relations intermediaries (like media managers, spokespersons to government and private institutions or persons). Gusau argued in his abstract, that whereas in Europe and the United States, there exist “more than 100 years of research into relationships between PR intermediaries and journalists”, in the case of Nigeria, there is dearth of such research because most existing research narrowed focus on relationships between journalists and prominent public and private news-makers while ignoring the role of  PR intermediaries, who in actual sense relate with journalists on behalf of those prominent news-makers. In his work, Gusau cited more than 100 academic books and journals published by leading authors around the world, including Nigerians. He combined qualitative and quantitative research methods by interviewing and observing a sample of PR intermediaries and senior journalists from different sections of Nigeria and also did content analysis of three newspapers: Daily Trust, Thisday, and Nigerian Tribune. The dissertation is being reviewed for publication by a UK-based academic journal for reference by academics globally. Gusau’s working experience and personal achievements also gave him some advantage.  During his NYSC in Taraba State, he combined primary assignment with freelance journalism. At the passing-out parade, he was among five recipients of the NYSC state director’s certificate of commendation. He was employed by Daily Trust three months before he completed service. Ten years at Daily Trust, he was first to win the Board Chairman’s star award and cash prize for integrity in the journalists’ category. He was also recipient of the Editor In Chief’s letter of commendation and cash reward for integrity. He also received performance-based incentives and accelerated promotions. He joined Borno government in March, 2012. From his  personal records, about  20 years ago Gusau was among the three overall  best graduating students of Mass Communication for his HND class in  Kaduna Polytechnic. He holds PGD and Masters Degree in Industrial and  Labour Relations from University of Maiduguri. Gusau has also attended  different courses with certificates on Creative Writing from University  of Cambridge in UK; Leadership and persuasive communication from Harvard  University in Massachusetts, USA; reputation branding, media relations  and political communication from Thompson Reuters in New York, USA.  Also, his membership of the Chartered Institute of Public Relations  (CIPR) and Public Relations and Communications Association (PRCA), both  in UK, gives him access to online and practical training opportunities.  Gusau has also attended more than 20 other training programmes mostly in  Nigeria with at least ten of them sponsored by Daily Trust for  categories of staff. In London, Gusau’s student record also showed extreme dedication. He was one of the very few students with 100% attendance record for lectures, seminars and field trips. His school  record also shows that at different times, he applied and held one-on-one tutorials on academic writing offered free of charge by experts in the university’s learning enhancement team at the library, who support students aiming for high marks by improving their skills in research-based academic writing.