The new Board of the Police Service Commission (PSC)  has formally assumed duties with a promise to reposition the Nigeria Police Force for optimum efficiency and effectiveness. The new Chairman of the Commission, Musiliu Smith, a retired Inspector General of Police said there was much work to be done, a statement by the spokesman of the PSC Ikechukwu And said on Friday. He said the new team will immediately hit the ground running as there was no time to waste. “We are starting work immediately and will work many hours every day for us to effectively discharge our constitutional mandate.” And, quoted Smith as stating during a reception held in his honour and Members of the Commission in Abuja. He noted that the new team will work to build capacities in the Commission, “we will give our country men and women a Police force they will all be proud of.” Smith disclosed that the current state of the Nigeria Police Force has continued to agitate Members of the new Board. "We have continued to discuss the current state of the Nigeria Police and the state of Nigerian security," Ani quoted. He assured that the Commission will place high premium in the recruitment of quality personnel for the force and will also expose these officers to structured and quality training. He promised to work closely with the Ministry of Interior and Nigeria Police Force to ensure that “we have in place a police force that is effective, efficient and humane and can also stand international scrutiny”. The Chairman made a case for modern gadgets for the police, stressing that modern policing calls for modern gadgets. He promised that the new team will engage the government for proper funding of the police. The Board has also received briefings from the Permanent Secretary/ Secretary to the Commission, Mr. Musa Istifanus. In fulfilment of the desire of the new Board to start work immediately, they visited the Commission’s corporate office headquarters under construction in Jabi, Abuja. The Chairman was accompanied on the visit by Members of the Commission; Hon. Justice Clara Bata Ogunbiyi, a retired Justice of the Supreme Court, Alhaji Bawa Lawal, a retired Assistant Inspector General of Police, Naja’tu Bala Muhammad a woman activist and first female Senator from Kano State, Mr. Austin Adogame Braimoh, a seasoned Media Manager and former General Manager African Independent Television, AIT, Barrister Rommy Mom, an activist, international Development Expert and President of Lawyers alert and Dr. Nkemka Osimiri Jombo – Ofo, a leading Nigerian Entrepreneur and Management Consultant. He was former President of the Enugu Chamber of Commerce, Industry, Mines and Agriculture. The Chairman and Members of the new Board expressed satisfaction with the quality and state of completion of the new headquarters building, promising to ensure that the balance of N798.4million required in completing the building is released. The new Board Members represent different Interest groups. Justice Ogunbiyi represents the Judiciary; Alhaji Lawal, the Police and Naja’tu Bala Muhammed, women. Mr. Braimoh, represents the Press, Barrister Mom, Civil Society and Dr. Jombo-Ofo, Organized Private sector.