The Centre for Social Justice (CSJ) has urged President Muhammadu Buhari to immediately signed the Sections 81 and 121 Sections of the 1999 Constitution as amended, which sought to compel the President and state governors to submit budget estimates to the national and state assemblies respectively, 90 days to the end of the financial, specifically early September each year. The Lead Director of the CSJ, Eze Onyekpere, a lawyer, told newsmen Tuesday in Abuja that the National Assembly had undertaken the amendment of the sections due to the controversies dodging budget estimate submission, passage, amendments and its eventual signing into law. He said the budget despite its importance has been bastardized because the Presidency and the National Assembly have been hoodwinking Nigerians and paying lip service to the timely passage of the budget. Onyekpere also accused the executive and the legislative arms of government of collusion in ensuring that the financial year of the budget commence very late and end in June between 2016 and 2018. He said that persistent uncertainty in the country’s financial year, caused by the delay in the presentation and passage of the budget, had wreaked havoc on the economy and the citizens. “The 2016, 2017 and 2018 budgets were all approved and given assent very late in the year, after the end of the first quarter. With very late presentation, the National Assembly also took their time before approval which came out late. The 2017 assent did not come until June and the same happened in 2018. “The implication of the foregoing is that our economy is subjected to various degrees of uncertainty; stakeholders can no longer plan properly with the budget, fiscal and monetary policies as a guide; things remain in a state of flux until the middle of the year. The financial year needs to be certain so that stakeholders can plan and follow through. “National Assembly, no doubt, can amend any law, but until that amendment is done, the undulating financial year which changes from year to year has done so much havoc to the Nigerian people and the economy. As a result of the uncertainty and delay, budget reporting had been distorted and no longer makes sense,” Onyekpere said. According to him, as at the time the first quarter budget implementation report of 2017 and 2018 became due (one month after the end of the quarter), there was no 2017 or 2018 budget in existence, same with the 2017 and 2018 second quarter budget implementation reports. “Even if the budgets were signed into law in June, releases and disbursements for implementing the capital votes had not started. Despite the efforts of the National Assembly, the Federal Government had refused to sign the Bill, which was presented to it the same time (April 2018) the Not-Too-Young-to-Run and other Bills was presented to the Presidency. While saying that the refusal of the Presidency to assent to the Bill was in negation of the Federal Government’s claim that it was seeking to ensure the quick passage of the budget, mainly on or before January 1st of each year, he also urged the National Assembly to utilize their veto power and override the presidency on the Bill to make it a law.