The Christian Association of Nigeria has raised the alarm that herdsmen and Boko Haram insurgents have joined forces to attack citizens. The CAN also alleged that the Federal Government had not done enough in addressing killings in parts of the country. Addressing journalists in Ilorin, Kwara State, yesterday after the 2018 Special Prayer Rally organised by Church Leaders and Minsters Fellowship of Nigeria, in conjunction with the state’s chapter of  CAN, its national president Samson Ayokunle, said it was time the federal government woke up to its duties of securing the lives and property of Nigerians. “The herdsmen and Boko Haram, they are combining together and  it is difficult now to separate the herdsmen from Boko Haram. On Sunday night again, they attacked some communities in Adamawa State; they rode motorcycles the way Boko Haram usually do and they started shooting and killing people. “How do these people get their ammunition supplied? Why is the government unwilling to unearth all these things? Nigerians cannot be just slaughtered like chickens. The soul of every Nigerian is important and valuable before God, it is a shame what is happening and when we talk like this it is not because we hate government but government must be responsible. Government will earn our respect when it performs its duties. “I have gone to Aso Rock and presented papers to Mr President on the issue of security architecture. We cannot sleep with our eyes closed when the security apparatus as it were appears to be in the hands of only one religion; when the apparatus appears to be in only one region of the country.” The CAN president alleged that almost all the politicians in country were desperate. He also asked the Independent National Electoral Commission not to deny voters registration, adding that the electoral umpire must be transparent and be faithful “otherwise they will become part of the enemies of the nation.” On the Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti State, the CAN president warned against bloodshed.