The national leadership of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) has condemned last week’s killings of innocent Nigerians in Sokoto state by gunmen. The APC National Chairman, Comrade Adams Oshiomhole, who briefed journalists in Abuja on Monday after the National Working Committee (NWC) meeting deliberated on the incident, urged the security chiefs to do everything possible not only to arrest all those involved in the killing but also do everything possible to be seen as having the competence to protect lives and property. Oshiomhole said, “We are worried about this and our preliminary investigations showed that those affected come from a part of the state that can be said to be quite rural and probably a place where people don’t even have cattle. All they have is just their farm land. This killing, like other killings across the country, is condemnable and the NWC condemns them in the strongest words possible. “We believe that every Nigerian, regardless of his location has a right to life. We admit that the minimum obligation of government is to protect lives and property and we urge our security chiefs to do everything possible not only to arrest all those involved in this senseless killing, but to do everything possible to be seen to have the competence to protect lives and property. “No one will be satisfied with making explanations or try to explain away why we cannot secure human lives, especially of a Nigerian citizen within the borders of Nigeria. We want to strongly appeal to all Nigerians and the media to help us in this process. This is the only country that we have and so we must do everything to give every Nigerian a sense of security regardless of his birthplace which some people refer to as ethnic origin or his choice of residence or religious belief. “It is not helpful to national efforts of securing lives and property if any Nigerian, including religious leaders and media seek to explain criminality in terms of religion or ethnic nationality. “This is unhelpful in terms of our collective responsibility to work with security agencies to provide useful information that can lead to the arrest of criminals and also help them to pre-empt any plan by criminals to undermine our collective security.” He added: “Those responsible for the wanton killings in Sokoto and those who are victims are of the same ethnic origin and unarguably of the same religious persuasion. It is the same thing in Zamfara state. It is not between one ethnic group or the other. And so, if these criminals found themselves in other parts of the country as they have done from time to time, and their victims are of different ethnic origin, we should insist that we treat them for who they are, criminals that government has a duty to pursue and chase out of the territory of Nigeria and all those who are perpetuating crimes be brought to justice in accordance with the provisions of our laws. “As a nation, we should all be united, not only in democracy, in this wanton killing, but also in helping government to do what it has to do to compel security agents to live up to their mandate. It is clearly unhelpful and it bothers on divisive politics if we seek to disguise criminality either in religious terms or ethnic terms. Government has a duty to protect all citizens regardless of their religious belief. “I ask the media to help us to educate the people that it does not help the process of law enforcement if crime and criminality are identified in terms of their ethnic origin or their religion. “But we are together as a party and Nigerians that these killings stand condemned and our security must do everything possible to convince Nigerians that under their leadership, we are safe and secured. They must continue to review their operational modalities in the light of emerging threats. “The Buhari government is determined to do everything possible to secure the lives and property of every Nigerian. That is one of the key objectives that this government has committed itself to. Unfortunately, as much as we have made progress, we cannot but commend the President and security agents in decimating Boko Haram. “Unfortunately, while we are making progress in this area, new forms of criminality are emerging. We need the same kind of national effort and unanimity in working together to defeat these new criminals that are emerging. We will work with the government and encourage them to do everything it has to do to bring criminals to justice and secure the lives of every Nigerian.”