 The Federal Government has warned Chief Executive Officers of Ministry Department and Agencies (MDAs) and their governing boards against heating the polity or acting again extant rules guiding their operations. The Secretary to the Government of the Federation, Mr. Boss Mustafa, gave the warning wednesday in Abuja at the induction programme for governing board members of parastatals recently inaugurated under the Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF) organised by the Bureau of Public Service Reform (BPSR). According to him, the joint retreat for Management, Chairmen and Members of the Governing Boards of Federal Parastatals under the Presidency and other MDAs, was organized to further deepen their understanding of the new policies, processes and procedures that have been introduced into the art of governance. "I have observed with concern divergent interpretations to the roles Governing Boards of Federal Parastatals are expected to play in the corporate governance of their organizations.  Arising from this, a number of worrisome issues have begun to emerge. Some of these include: "Disagreements on who is responsible for the day to day running of Parastatals and Agencies; disregard for extant regulations guiding/restricting the conduct of Board meetings; interference in the function of Office of the Chief Executive Officers; issuing directives to staff without recourse to the Chief Executive Officer thereby creating disharmony amongst personnel. "Initiating unlawful disciplinary measures against the Chief Executive without requisite guidance and approval from supervisory Ministry; and instigating the Labour Unions and associations as agents of distraction in the Parastatals," Mustapha said. He said that the poor and unhealthy relationships between governing boards and their Chief Executive Officers has become very worrisome to Government and unacceptable. He charged chairmen and members of governing boards to acquaint themselves with the instruments of establishment of their respective organisations, where the roles and responsibilities of the board are prescribed.