The Minister of Power, Works and Housing, Mr Babatunde Fashola has ordered the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) on stricter actions on the 11 Distribution Companies (DisCos) to quickly improve their network, meter consumers and desist from threatening off-grid investors. Fashola who said this at a briefing in Abuja on Monday also opined that there was no justification for raising electricity tariff for the DisCos when many Nigerians have not been metered to measure actual consumption as complaints of estimated billing abound.  He said “The ministry has no responsibility over tariff. The opinion I express after that tariff increase is that why should we increase tariff without meters?  It is only fair that before the tariff goes up again, let us know how we can check that we are paying fairly.  The minister said he issued the directive to the NERC Chairman, Prof. James Momoh who was present at the briefing in line with Section 32 of the Electric Power Sector Reform Act 2005 (EPSRA) based on the poor cooperation of DisCos in key power improvement initiatives especially the energising of key market places by the Federal Government and the slow pace at which the DisCos are investing in networks and meters.  Fashola said: “It is necessary to direct NERC to step in to do the following: Ensure that the DisCos improve on their distribution equipment and capacity to take off the available 2,000 megawatts (MW) to optimise the electricity resource produced by the GenCos, and I direct NERC to immediately act in this respect.  “To enforce the contract of the discos to supply meters and act to ensure the urgent, speedy supply and installation of meters with a view to eliminating estimated billing and promote efficient industry and market structure.  “To stop the discos from threatening private entrepreneurs from entering the market to supply the consumers whom the discos cannot yet supply and to licence such persons subject to terms and conditions to promote competition and private sector participation and avoid a private monopoly,” he ordered.  The Minister who said the eligible customer electricity contracting model was progressing for certain consumers to buy power directly from GenCos blamed the DisCos for “giving reluctant cooperation”.  He said the DisCos must work to deliver on their agreements as they owe the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) N500 billion for energy supply to them from the GenCos due to collection losses.  Fashola also lamented the prevalence of customers’ complaints of slow metering, high estimated billing, mass disconnections that affects paying customers saying: “The DisCos bought these assets with their eyes opened and they must completely deliver or exit.”  He said the lack of a volunteer operator to host the 29th monthly power sector meeting resulted in its cancellation as it was expected to hold on Monday.  “I believe that we have had 28 of those meetings and these should have been the 29th. At the end of the last, we asked for a volunteer host and there was none for this July. We have a host for August, Mainstream Energy in Niger state,” Fashola said.