The Inspector General of Police (IGP) Ibrahim Idris has set up a task force to arrest the killers of 7 policemen ambushed and killed at Galadimawa around-about,  Abuja.  The Policemen were killed on Monday, around 9 pm at the Galadimawa round about, not far from the city centre. The high powered specialized crack investigation team to be headed by Commissioner of Police (CP) Bala Ciroma was set up on 3rd July, 2018. CP Bala Ciroma was recently deployed to Plateau state to investigate the recent killings and insecurity in the state, but was redeployed back to Abuja barely 24 hours later. Police spokesman, DCP Jimoh Moshood in a statement on Thursday said the team is made up of specialized crack investigation detectives, police scene of crime experts and technical intelligence unit of the Force. He said the team has already commenced investigation and were directed by the IGP to complete the assignment within 21 days. He said, “This specialized investigation team is headed by an experienced, crime bursting and a seasoned investigator.” “CP Bala Ciroma would be assisted by the Deputy Commissioner of Police in charge of the IGP Special Tactical Squad (STS). Others on the team are, “Deputy Commissioner of Police, Department of Operations FCT Police Command; Deputy Commissioner of Police, Police Forensic Department and Deputy Commissioner of Police, Police Central Criminal Registry.” They include, “Assistant Commissioner of Police, 2 I/C IGP Intelligence Response Team; Assistant Commissioner of Police, Federal SARS and Chief Superintendent of Police, IGPSEC.” The team has been mandated to carry out thorough and discreet investigation of the ambush attack and killing of seven Policemen while on duty on 2nd July, 2018 by armed robbers/Bandits at Galadimawa roundabout. The team is also to detect the motives behind the ambush and killings and also to work with the Commissioner of Police, Federal Capital Territory in the investigation of the incident. The team is also to take over further investigation into the killings from the FCT CIID and take any other instruction from the IGP in ensuring the prompt resolution of the crime in bringing the perpetrators to justice. Moshood said the team will obtain evidence, receive complaints and information from public spirited individuals or any other member of the public with useful information that can assist them in their investigation. He also said the team is expected to proffer strategies and recommendations to forestall similar attack in the future. Moshood said the IGP implored members of the public in the FCT to cooperate with the Investigation Team. He added that any member of the public with useful information about the killing will be appreciated and can use the Numbers: 08032003913, 08061581938 and 07057337653 to reach the Investigation team. He said, “The Force will not relent, despite this attack; in its renewed commitment in crime prevention and control and adequate protection of lives and property throughout the country, and will ensure that the perpetrators of this heinous crime are brought to justice and on time.”  