Kano state government has provided direct jobs and skills development opportunities to 50, 000 Kano youth in the past three years, the state governor, Dr. Abdullahi Umar Ganduje has said. Governor Ganduje also said his administration had initiated the Matasa Madogara programme with a view to making youths in the state more useful to the society. The governor made the assertion during the closing of the first Kano Youth Summit held in the state capital with the theme “Youth inclusiveness as a driver for sustainable growth and development”. Ganduje pointed out that his administration had earmarked N258m for the construction of community skills and development centers at Kano Municipal and Dawakin Tofa local governments, while MAFITA, a DFID programme had provided the equipment and master craft persons for the centers, envisaged to start with 360 apprentices. “The state government in collaboration with Mafita, a DFID programme, has provided skills acquisition training of over 5, 000 apprentices in different trades under the supervision of 655 master craft persons. Similarly, phase II of the programme will recruit 3, 000 apprentices under the supervision of 900 master craft persons”, he said. He added that his administration was giving priority attention to youth inclusiveness in decision making, in line with the guiding principles of the Universal Declaration for human rights. “I implore our youths to join hands, accept the changes and shun all forms of vices such as use of illicit drugs, violence as well as other criminal acts so as to be self employed, responsible citizens and further leaders”, the governor charged. On the summit, Dr. Ganduje  describe it as timely as it was aimed at creating a relevant platform for generating fresh perspectives and innovative ideas from the youth with a view to integrating them in the state’s development efforts. He therefore, charged the organizers to produce a report that would provide thematic insights on youth economic opinion so as to offer a robust and varied perspective for Kano state.