A chieftain of the All Peoples Congress (APC) in Ekiti State, Prince Dayo Adeyeye, has expressed shock over what he called mass failure of the indigenes of  Ekiti state in the 2018 results of the West African School Certificate Examination. He attributed the mass failure to the alleged "systemic" breakdown of education in the state, in the past three and half years of Governor Ayodele Fayose 

Price Adeyeye, in a press statement signed and released on his behalf by media aide, Mr. Bayo Ojo, on Friday, he expressed shock at the 23 position of the state in the continental sub-regional examination results released on Wednesday.

His words; "One is shocked with  the  abysmal mass failure of Ekiti  students  in the  recently released WAEC 2018 results  placing  the state on number 23 out of 36 states. 

"We have  earlier  cried to the  public  that  the celebrated achievement  of coming  first  in NECO examination was as a result  of concerted efforts made by Oni/Fayemi administrations to reposition  the  education  sector.  It takes time for  a seed to germinate and bear fruits. The results  of the  giant strides  of the  two  administrations and huge investment  in  pedagogical and infrastructural facilities was undeservedly appropriated by Fayose as his achievements. "One wondered then how you could achieve such outstanding result without any investment whatsoever in infrastructural and human capital development. Fayose was claiming that he could reap without sowing. Now the deceit has finally been exposed." Adeyeye noted that there has not been  recruitment  of teachers  to teach students  in the  last three and half years adding that most  schools,   graduates of religious  studies  are made to teach English  language,  Physics graduate  teaching  Chemistry  and Business  Administrator  teaching  Accounting. 

"The core subjects  allowance paid by Fayemi as well as Rural  allowance  were cancelled  by   Fayose. Salaries are owed for up to eight months  arrears,  no furniture  for  teachers  and students.  The morale in education  sector fell to the  lowest  ebb. 

"The teachers  are not motivated  and students  are groaning under taxation  by  the  government  that  kept  most of them out of the  school  compound.  No provision of  textbooks  and other instructional  materials  to  aid learning". 

The former Minister of State for Works, also carpeted the Fayose administration for politicizing the education sector of the state, which he said in turn took a tumble form its erstwhile enviable position among states in the country. "The last straw that  broke  the  Carmel's  back  was the over politicisation  of education in the state by Fayose, by coercing  the  teachers to compulsorily work  for the  ruling  party. "Closing  down schools indiscriminately  for teachers  to attend  political rallies and threatening  to sack them for not supporting  the  repressive  regime, not minding  the school  academic  calendar. "The destruction wrought upon the educational sector by Fayose is now finally manifesting. It will take years to rebuild the education sector in Ekiti from the present decay. That is why we earnestly pray for  Dr Fayemi to come  back and save the Education  sector  from total collapse". The statement explained.