The Presidential Committee on the Northeast Initiatives (PCNI) yesterday said that it would re-establish agricultural activities for Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) who returned to their homes in various communities across Borno State. Vice Chairman of the PCNI, Alhaji Tijjani Tumsa, while briefing newsmen in Maiduguri, said that having rebuilt many residential houses in some communities, the committee would re-establish agricultural activities for the survival of thousands of IDPs returning home. “So many houses have been rebuilt. I think we extremely happy with what is going on in Bama, because people have returned and some have been sustained staying in Bama. “What we are now concern with, is how we can establish agricultural activities and have input available to them to continue to maintain early recovery and livelihood support,” Tumsa said. He also said that the infrastructure was to repair structures for them so as to be able to use, “and we were working seriously towards that. We are making progress. “I don’t think you have been to Bama recently, because the last I time I was in Bama, the general hospital there is nearly completion; we are working on the roads going to Bama with Borno State Road Maintainance Agency in collaboration Ministry of Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement to reconstruction it,” he said. Tumsa, who spoke at the stakeholders meeting on the return of IDPs in the Northeast held in Maiduguri yesterday, said the meeting was to formalise the templates for the return of displaced persons in a self-esteemed ways.He also debunked the reports that there was no security presence in Bama and others communities. “Agencies of Federal government was presently in Bama; Police Force, Nigeria Customs Service, Nigeria Immigration Service and among others. The civil authority is  really transiting quickly in Bama town,” he said.  The Commissioner for Reconstruction, Rehabilitation and Resettlement, Prof. Babagana Umara, said: “We must have development framework that will ensure the return of displaced persons in a dignified manners. We have the plans to return the people of Mobar , Marte, Abadam as well as Ngoshe; why we implement this is because we want to achieve a lot and that is why we developed framework.” Prof. Babagana explained”.