Director General, National Emergency Management Agency (NEMA), Engr. Mustapha Maihaja has called on staff of the agency to join him in repositioning the agency to a world class standard through effective performance. Speaking in Abuja today at the opening of a three-day workshop on repositioning, strengthening and re-orientation for Zonal Coordinators, Head of Operation Offices and others, he said he was coming up with new strategies to aid the mode of operations in the agency to enable it set the pace for other African nations.  Maihaja called on the participants to see the workshop as a forum where they should interact and exchange ideas between the heads of Zonal and Operational offices and the management team for cordial and mutual understanding of issues.  He said part of the strategies to restructure the agency was to have a response and recovery department in line with the best world practices hence, the new department would encompass search, rescue and recovery as a result of any emergency as against the current search and rescue department.  According to him, some loopholes and shortcomings were identified in the agency hence the need to organise the workshop to share "our understanding to review, to enforce, reposition the agency."  ``"We felt we need to reorganise NEMA in a way and manner that would be more efficient and one of the steps taken is this workshop, getting people together to get the right information."  ``We tell them where we are going and then we sit down to strengthen our strategies to have a better NEMA, a NEMA that is world class that we envisage in the nearest future,’’ Maihaja said.  On his part, NEMA North East Zonal Coordinator, Mr Bashir Garba said the workshop would boost their response capacities in their respective Zonal and Operation offices.  According to him, the challenges which they encounter in the North East Zone was usually crowd control at the evacuation centers or emergency centers.  ``However, he said the people have been sensitized to avoid places of emergencies where they have non-specific role to play."