The Association of Licensed Telecommunication Operators of Nigeria (ALTON) has condemned the picketing of MTN Nigeria headquarters in Lagos by the Nigeria Labour Congress.  The Chairman of ALTON, Engr Gbenga Adebayo said in a statement on Monday that NLC’s action was condemnable because in the fundamental human rights regarding freedom of association as guaranteed by the constitution, individuals must not be compelled to join an association or union if they do not choose to do so. . “Employees of our members are able to join or form associations and unions if they so desire".  “However, the practice is that membership of any associations and unions are voluntary. In line with fundamental human rights regarding freedom of association as guaranteed by the constitution, individuals must not be compelled to join an association or union if they do not choose to do so.  “Picketing of such nature as reported, leading to injury to persons and damage to properties, creates an unfortunate situation where employees are coerced to join unions and associations without respect for their individual rights of voluntary association”, he said.  He said members of ALTON are law-abiding organizations who are committed to best practices in all areas including labour related matters.  He said  as responsible corporate citizens, its members have always provided platforms for their employees to  associate freely in accordance with the law and the constitution.  “Damage to any Telecom Facilities will lead to the disruption of critical national security and economic services which will expose innocent citizens to great danger."  He further said, “ Attempts have been made to disrupt the network operations of some of our members through the shut down and vandalisation of critical network facilities."  “The implication of such disruption will lead to severe poor quality of services with attendant national security implications and far reaching implications on other services that are dependent on the telecommunications industry."  “ We hereby strongly request government and its law enforcement agencies to intervene expeditiously, otherwise we will advise our members to consider preventive shut down in order to avoid further damage to network facilities.”