The Nigerian Immigration Service has warned that unless special attention is given to the management of borders, Nigeria risks becoming a victim of threats posed by organised transitional crimes. Deputy Comptroller of Immigration, Nigeria Immigration Service, Akwa Ibom Command, Ijegwa Onobu, gave the warning in Uyo yesterday during an in house training for officers and men of the command. He said the neglect of border communities by successive governments aided crime, blaming the restiveness of youths and increased crime in the area on the lack of development of border communities by successive governments. He urged governments at all levels to integrate border security into national security, adding that increased funding would check border crimes. He also advocated proper and capacity building as well as regular training of border operatives. “Border communities have a long history of neglect by successive governments. This tends to make border communities hostile to government and security operatives.Borders are managed to achieve an appropriate balance between the prevention of illegal entry of persons, goods and services into the country as well as ensuring the unhampered flow of legal trade and labour for economic growth and security,” he said. Noting that transitional organised crime is growing globally and threatening the security and the economic development of nations, he called for the strengthening of joint patrol among operatives of neighbouring countries as part of measures to check border crimes. He also charged officers and men of the command to control the borders as they were becoming more and more active with the possibility of further expanding the economy and creating opportunities for better life for citizenry. Also speaking, the Comptroller of Nigeria Immigration Service, Akwa Ibom command, Mr Livingstone Amadi, cautioned against inter-rivalry among sister security agencies in the state to enable them check border crimes and properly secure the border.