Deforestation has triggered displacement across the world and is forcing millions of people to migrate from urban to rural communities across the planet, a former heard of Anatomy Department, Kaduna state University (KASU), Dr. Yusuf Nadabo has said. Speaking during an event at Teku Farms in Kaduna, Nadabo who is the Patron, African Climate Reporters said the world must rise-up and face the reality of deforestation adding, “We should tell ourselves the truth and find new ways of tackling the speed of desertification that is affecting agricultural land and forcing millions of people into migration from urban to rural areas.”  He said, “Each year, millions of hectares of land are lost to deforestation and the situation is worse in African due to lack of dedication by both NGOs/CSO and authorities concerned and it is trying to turn the region into a monstrous challenges that could affect every sector.  “According to the UN agencies, land degradation affects 1.5 billion people globally, Africa loses about 80 million tons of cereal crops from about 105 million hectares of croplands which can be prevented if soil erosion is curbed.”  He called on all Nigerians, NGO’s, CSO’s, youth and religious organization to re-double effort toward supporting the government in the daily battle against desertification adding, “The Great Green wall is a pan-African proposal to plant a wall of trees at the southern edge of the Sahara Desert to battle desertification with a strip of land from Dakar to Djibouti is 15 km (9 mi) wide and 7,100 km (4,400 mi) long.”  Dr. Nadabo called on Kaduna state government to introduce tougher punishment for bush burners and people cutting down trees illegally in the forest with a view to addressing deforestation.  Earlier in his opening remark, founder, Teku International Farm, Kaduna Malam Ibrahim  Salisu who  is the organizer of the event the programme was organize to support  Kaduna state government  with over 550 different  varies of trees species in other to combat  desertification.  Ibrahim added, “The demand for charcoal is becoming a big problem disturbing the existence of African forest, hence the need to stand up and support the government in the fight against desertification through donating trees and using other means of informing the society on the danger of cutting down trees without planting a new one.”  He however pointed out that, continuous cultivation without adding supplements, overgrazing, lack of soil and water conservation structures, and indiscriminate bushfires aggravate the process of desertification.  Besides, Executive Director, Green Aid, Dr. Tabi Joda expressed concern over the 3,000, 000 square meters of land in sub-Sahara Africa that has been taken over by desertification saying, ”The situation is getting worse every day as a result of lack of serious commitment by authorities and other stake holders in the region.”  Receiving the 550 trees donated by Teku Farm, Permanent Secretary, Kaduna State Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry, Dr. Abdulkadir Kasim commended the management of the farm saying, “The desire of the state government is gradually coming to fusion, it is the desire of this government to ensure we encourage private sector in whatever human endeavor we get involved with.”