The Abuja Electricity Distribution Company (AEDC) has urged customers to support it in curbing acts of meter bypassing and illegal connections in Abuja as it assures on addressing their complaints and speed up metering. The General Manager, FCT Central Region, Engr. Usman M. Usman who sought the support on Thursday at a stakeholders forum in Jikwoyi, Abuja said, “We solicit for your support in protecting our installations in your communities, shun every unwholesome practice of short-changing the company such as  bypassing our meters, illegal connections and molestation of our staff.”  While also tasking the customers on prompt payment of electricity bills, Engr. Usman stated that the company upon taking over from the defunct PHCN in 2013 has been addressing issues of obsolete equipment, huge metering gap, bad network, vandalism and technical and commercial losses.  He said AEDC has achieved much in terms of improved customer service delivery, deployment of prepaid meters through a mass metering programme, construction of several substations, revamping dysfunctional networks, raising human capacity and reducing the losses.  “It is still work in progress and that is the reason for inviting you for this meeting to rub minds on the way forward and to enable us achieve better success,” he said.  The Area Manager, Jikwoyi, Mrs Bara’atu Aliyu Mohammed lauded the turnout of the customers noting that the firm was ready to address any complaints through an effective mechanism.  In his complaint, Mr Joseph Egunde, a customer from Gbagalape-Nyanya said the place was disconnected since April 20, 2018. “We still get bills from the service centre without supply and we have written letters to that effect,” he noted.  Mr Owonde Emmanuel of Orozo, Abuja also appealed for quick response to restoring supply to his area which has been out for a month.  Mrs Okechukwu Benedicta at Army Estate, Kurudu said she was disconnected in October 2017 whilst on prepaid meter and had been recharging promptly.  Responding, Engr. Usman said AEDC had noted the problem as he directed Mrs Mohammed and other officials to log them and dispatch so that the issues are resolved promptly.      