Transcorp Hilton Hotel, Abuja has launched a mobile app to enable guests control their experiences and engage with the hotel from their personal iOS and Android mobile devices even before they arrive on property. The innovation, is an addition to the hotel’s variety of hospitality technology amenities, such as complimentary high-speed Internet access in guestrooms and public areas, the new ICEapp,powered by Intelity, will equipthe award-winning, 5-star hotel with a direct connection between guests and the hotel team to improve guest service and communication. A release signed by the hotel’s Public relations Manager, Shola Adeyemo, quoted Valentine Ozigbo, MD/CEO, Transcorp Hotels Plc, who said, “We believe strongly in the digital guest experience, which includes offering a mobile app, so guests have easy access to information everywhere during their stay.  He added that, “We are excited to present this innovative solution and establish our hotel as forward thinking when it comes to using mobile to meet our guests’ needs.”  Commenting on the introduction of the mobile solution, created by the hospitality tech company – Intelity – Etienne Gailliez, General Manager, of the hotel, said “Guests want a more personalized experience, and ICEapp provides the digital engagement we need to start listening to their requests before, during, and even after their stay. We are delighted to introduce this new hospitality technology which enables us to deliver personalized experiences to our guests.”  David Adelson, Intelity CEO, said, ICEapp isn’t replacing personalized service but enhancing it. He said, “We are delighted to expand our relationship with Hilton Hotels & Resorts by bringing ICEapp to Nigeria.” He added that, “This solution gives Transcorp Hilton Abuja guests more control over their stay by turning their mobile devices into guest service tools, whether they are physically on premises or offsite – literally anywhere else in the world. It also enables the hotel’s management and marketing teams to better engage their guests and take hospitality to even greater heights.”