French President Emmanuel Macron on Tuesday visited President Muhammmadu Buhari at the State House in Abuja and said his country would not be the one to completely fix Africa's problems. Macron was speaking at a joint press conference after the close-door meeting with President Buhari. Asked what were his country's plans to curb terrorism in Africa, specifically herdsmen and farmers crisis in Nigeria, Macron said: “Well it is just that you have all these several issues correlated and your question is related to this event. “First of all, I think the main plan is an African plan and France is not the one to solve or fix African situations. So, what we want to do is that we will intervene and maintain our presence in Africa and Sahel to fight against terrorism especially in Mali and in the region. And we will stay as long as it is requested by our friends especially Mali; we discussed yesterday (Monday) about this issue. “But what is important to me is how the different African governments organise themselves to fight against terrorism and get rid of these people and especially jihadism. That’s why I do promote the G5/Sahel Initiatives and I think as far as we are organised, Nigeria, Niger, Chad, and Cameroon is very important.” The French leader stressed the need for countries to increase the pressure against terrorists, especially jihadists. “We can fix the situation in the coming month and obviously France will remain present in Mali for as long as they want it. “But when I look at the past months, we have increased our resource and delivered concrete results in northern and western Mali which for me give positive outcomes,” he stated. On his decision to visit the African Shrine in Lagos during his visit to Nigeria, the French president explained:  “First, because I wanted to find a good occasion to come back there. I know the place and I have some memories, I have to confess at a time that there was no President around, I hope I will not spoil the party. “I think that is such an iconic place for a lot of African people and African culture. And I think very often when you speak of the African culture in Europe, those who are succeed in Europe and in France, which is different most of the times are not dramatically very famous in Nigeria or in Africa. “There is a bias because you know people are absolutely not the same. I mean Fela, Femi, Seun Kuti are obviously very famous in France and Europe, I mean they are big successes but the Shrine is a cultural hub, an iconic hub and is very important for me first on a personal level, and that is why I want to say with a lot of humility that I recognise the importance of this place, I recognise the place of culture in this current environment. President Buhari confirmed that he and his visitor discussed security and economic integration. He thanked the French leader for his support on the fight against corruption, adding that “I'm grateful to the French President for commitment and understanding as it concerns Nigeria and this region,” Buhari said. Meanwhile, Buhari and Macron earlier at a bilateral meeting, witnessed the signing of a letter of intent for the financing of the urban mobility improvement programme initiated by the Lagos State Government to develop eight priority bus corridors connected to the mass transit network (urban train and high-level service bus with a total length of 41 kilometres. The letter of intent of the equivalent of $200m is a potential loan by the French Development Agency to the Nigerian Government. It was signed by the AFD’s Chief Executive Officer, Remy Rioux and the Nigerian Minister of Finance, Kemi Adeosun. It will also create two multimodal interchange hubs and functional integration of four public transport modes (urban train, high-level bus service, water transport lines and bus lines) planning and management capabilities of the transportation system. It is aimed at contributing to Lagos sustainable urban development plan through the deployment of a public transport network combining quality service, efficiency, accessibility, reliability, safety, reduction of polluting emissions and socio-economic and financial sustainability. It is equally aimed at giving 1,500,000 inhabitants access to quality transportation. Buhari and his visitor also witnessed the signing of an AFD's $75 million concessional loan agreement to enable Kano State to develop an effective and sustainable water supply service. The project covers the rehabilitation and densification of the network, rehabilitation of the main water production facilities and supporting consumer awareness campaigns, among others.