Haruna Ibrahim “Always render more and better service than is expected of you, no matter what your task may be” - Augustine Og Mandino (American author 1923-1996) The above quote was glaringly demonstrated by a fine gentleman, a rare breed professional, a true Nigerian who is devoted to his work, the country and its citizens. I am talking about a rare police officer who protects and secures citizens in challenging times. He is Chief Superintendent of Police (CSP) Patrick, the Divisional Police Officer (DPO) of Wuye Division in Abuja, the nation’s capital. Here is my encounter with this fine officer and gentleman. On Sunday July 8, 2018, my car suddenly developed a fault which warranted me to take it to a mechanic workshop for repairs. At the close of work around 9.30pm that day, I set out for Lugbe, my residential area. After driving for some distance, I felt the movement of the car was not normal. I however managed it until I got to Wuye. Immediately after the bridge, it went off as I parked by the road side. At that point I was totally confused; I didn’t know what else to do. I was in this state when a car drove past and parked a few meters ahead. The driver did not alight from the car; I however didn’t know that he was observing me. When he finally came out, I saw a tall man in native attire. “Any problem?” he asked. I narrated my predicament to him and how I got to that spot. He said, “This is a dangerous place to be at this time of the day.” I nodded in agreement and he asked what I intended to do. I told him I had called my colleagues in the office who were coming towards my direction so that we can tow the car. Before my colleague came, he asked me to inquire from the Arab Contractor’s security if they had an industrial rope. I went and they said no. He went ahead to check his own car and discovered that his own rope was not there. He told me how a woman was attacked almost at the same spot the previous week. “I won’t leave you here,” he told me, and I heaved a sigh of relief, grateful for such company at that time of the night and at such a dangerous spot. He said hoodlums could come out from nowhere to attack. My colleague Muideen Olaniyi arrived and we discovered that he too did not have a rope. At that point, the gentleman advised that we buy a rope from Area 1. I told him that I don’t even have any money as I had given all I had to the mechanic in the afternoon. My colleague volunteered five hundred naira and to my greatest surprise this fine officer added five hundred naira to what Muideen brought. We were about to go and purchase the rope when I called the office again and was told that they had gotten one for me. Feeling relieved at last, it was at this point I realized that I hadn’t bothered about the identity of my new friend and helper.  I respectfully inquired and he only said “CSP Patrick. I am the DPO of Wuye Division.” We left the spot with him standing there and watching us leave. His act of professionalism, the ‘Nigerianess’ in him, and his kindness completely change my mind-set about the Nigerian Police. Here was a man who did not ask for anything from me, he rather gave me at the time I needed it most. He did not care about which part of the country I come from before he could render help. He stood by his professional calling of protecting the citizens of the country in times of danger and protecting their property while putting his own life on the line. We made it successfully to Lugbe with CSP Patrick on my mind. From that day, I became an ambassador of the Nigeria Police Force. I have been telling anyone who cares to listen that Nigerian Policemen are not entirely what we describe them to be. Agreed there are a few bad eggs but the majority is well-behaved and dutifully discharge their responsibility of protecting lives and property as enshrined in the constitution. I wish to seize this medium to express my sincere appreciation to the Nigeria Police Force and to CSP Patrick for standing by me at a very vulnerable time. For protecting me at the time I needed protection, for helping me at the period I needed help and above all for showing me that Nigeria and Nigerians are not as bad as some people believe. Inspector General of Police, CSP Patrick deserves commendation and celebration. He is a candidate to be honoured. I will conclude this piece with the words of Henry Van Dyke, who said ‘Gratitude is the inward feeling of kindness received’.