High level of poverty and increasing youth unemployment have been identified by the West African Drug Policy Network Nigeria (WADPN) as some of the major factors causing high incidence of drug and substance abuse in Nigeria. In a press statement released by WADPN, in commemoration of the World Drug Day, the network expressed concern over the state of substance abuse and illicit drug trafficking in Nigeria. It called  for urgent action and concerted efforts toward an effective and sustainable drug control system in which the health, security and wellbeing of all Nigerians are top priority. The statement, signed by the National Coordinator of WADPN, Barr. Okereke Chinwike, and made available to City News at Chelsea Hotel, Abuja, yesterday, said   Nigeria is “Africa’s narcotics hub and a major transshipment point between the eastern and western hemispheres and the focal point of West African narcotics trafficking” WADPN, therefore, commended the current efforts of the Federal Government, Federal Ministry of Health, NAFDAC and NDLEA in improving responses to the challenges of increasing cases of substance abuse and illicit drug trafficking in Nigeria. It also commended the Office of the Senate President towards proposing the two bills on Mental Health and Substance Abuse. The group, however, called on government to repeal and abolish all drug-abuse related legislations, policies or practices. “They should pursue decriminalisation of personal drug use and possession of drugs for personal use as a means to reduce the enormous pressures on overburdened criminal justice systems and protect citizens from further harm. “Criminal penalties for drug use and trafficking should reflect the principle of proportionality,” the statement added. Earlier, at the event, the Regional Coordinator of WADPN, Mr Adeolu Ogunrombi, who is also the National Coordinator of Youthrise Nigeria, launched the ‘We Are People’ campaign, aimed at promoting human rights of people who use drugs in Nigeria. He said drug control policies should always reflect principles of human rights, harm reduction strategies, access to quality health and treatment of people who use drugs.