Ekiti Deputy Governor and the governorship candidate of Peoples Democratic Party in Ekiti State in Saturday election, Prof. Kolapo Olusola, has alleged that the Federal Government was moving part of the $321m recovered from the late Abacha family to the state to prosecute the election. Olusola alleged that about $50m of the recovered loot was moved from Abuja in a chattered flight through Akure Airport to Ekiti in two bullion vans to support the APC candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi. 

The Director, Media and Publicity of Kolapo Olusola Campaign Organisation, Lere Olayinka, raised this alarm in Ado Ekiti on Thursday.

He said, "We called you here to intimate the public through your various media organisations of the movement of huge cash by the federal government to Ekiti State for the Saturday election.

"Last week Saturday, two bullion vehicles were moved to the Akure Airport to evacuate cash brought from Abuja by a chattered flight."

"The flight landed when it was raining and all staff of the airport were barred from going near the aircraft while the cash was evacuated into the two bullion vehicles."

"After offloading the huge cash, the bullion van first moved to the Ondo State Government House in Akure from where they left for Isan Ekiti, the hometown of the APC governorship candidate, Dr. Kayode Fayemi."

Olusola claimed that preliminary findings indicated that N2.5bn cash was transferred by the Kebbi State Government to an account in UBA, Wuse Zone 4, Abuja. 

"It was withdrawn immediately and moved with a private jet to Akure."

"Also, apart from the N2.5 billion, another $50m (about N18bn) was taking from the $321m recovered from the late Abacha family.

"Our question is, how can a government that claimed to be fighting corruption released billions of naira from the public coffers for the governorship election of a single State? Where is their fight against corruption?"

He called on Nigerians to note this "wanton looting of public fund" by the APC government to fund election of its members.

"We must tell Fayemi and his APC that the conscience of the people of Ekiti cannot be purchased and we call on the people of Ekiti to resist the planned use of stolen fund to buy their votes of Saturday," he added.

Olusola also called the attention of the public to alleged intimidation and harassment of PDP members by men of the Department of State Services and policemen.

"Already, Akin Fakorede, an officer of the Federal SARS has been posted to Ekiti State, ostensibly to play the same ignoble role that he played during the Rivers State election.

"Let me say it clearly that no amount of intimidation will scare our people away from the polling units where they will vote for the PDP on Saturday.

"We have the people behind us and they are more than ready to give our candidate their votes on Saturday."