The nation’s security network is digging into the existence - or not - of an Islamic group called ‘Hakika’, alleged to be recruiting and training adherents in Adamawa and Nasarawa states, indoctrinating into them radical teachings. On July 4, the Nigerian Army issued an alert of the emergence of an Islamic sect with “strange” doctrine, said to be similar to that of Boko Haram. The sect has also been described as “dangerous”, and said to be headed by one Yahaya Ibrahim, with operational bases around Ngwurore in Yola South Local government Area of Adamawa State and Toto Local Government Area of Nasarawa State. According to the army, activities of the sect include non-adherence to five daily obligatory prayers, non-observance of Ramadan fasting, to promotion of fornication, adultery, among others. However, there is confusion about the existence of the group. In a memo from the Office of the National Security Adviser (NSA) dated June 6, 2018 addressed to the Inspector General of Police (IGP) and signed by Assistant Inspector General of Police (AIG) Peace Abdallah on behalf of the NSA, advised the police to “monitor the activities of the newly formed Islamic sect ‘Hakika’ through discreet intelligence gathering.” The memo also named one Yahaya Ibrahim, Ebira by tribe and residing in Kuje, as the leader of the group. One Yahaya Ibrahim, who claimed he read Architecture from Kaduna Polytechnic, told Daily Trust Saturday that he has been interrogated by the security on allegation that he is the leader of the sect. According to him, all descriptions about the identity of the sect leader aptly pointed to him, but he denied knowledge of the group. According to him, after his studies from Kaduna Polytechnic, he worked with Toto LG Council and relocated and resided in Kuje over ten years ago. Ibrahim said his relocation was prompted by the present chairman of Kuje, Alhaji Abdullahi D. Galadima, who informed him that architects are in great demand in Abuja. Ibrahim also said he has been questioned by the Special Assistant on Security to the Kuje Area Council chairman, Garki, Abuja Police Division and an Assistant Inspector General of Police, and nothing incriminating was found against him. He said he was shocked by the allegations, pointing out that he never had any forum where anyone can say he preached and it was recorded and sold to people. Ibrahim explained that he is a bona fide member of the Tijjaniyya sect, and lived with neighbours who are of the Izala sect and worship in different mosques. “If it is about that, we have our differences. But on the issue of Hakika, I don’t know anything about it,” he noted.  He challenged anybody who alleged that he is the leader of Hakika to come forward with proof. “As a member of the Tijjaniyya sect, what we advocate is peaceful coexistence, and I advise that whenever information is received, it must be investigated,” Ibrahim pointed out. Meanwhile, Islamic religious scholar and leader of the Tijjaniyya Movement, Sheikh Usman Dahiru Bauchi, said the members of the sect called Hakika are not Tijjaniyya. “I do not know them, but it is said that there are some people who don’t observe the obligatory prayers and see Ramadan fasting as compulsory. It was said that the sect started practicing Tijjaniyya, but later started denying the teachings. They are not part of us,” he said. Also, the founder of the Al-Mustoffiyya Islamic Society of Nigeria, Ustaz Maisuna M. Yahya told Daily Trust Saturday that it is unfortunate that ignorance, laziness, lack of focus, and self-appraisal or glory is what is ravaging the whole world. According to him, everyone have to very careful about how some Nigerian politicians politicize religion with foreign aid. According to him, “The federal government should not allow any duplicating national assignment to avoid the like of, or worse than the Boko Haram scenario. Parents must train, advise, warn, feed, clothe and educate your children.” He also urged parents to give true and unique Islamic doctrine to their children so that any other one they come across elsewhere will be unacceptable to them. Even as Ibrahim has denied any link with the group, it is yet to be proven whether he is the actual person in question, or another with a similar name. Daily Trust Saturday’s attempts to uncover additional proof of the existence of the sect, described as “mysterious”, bore no fruit, and instead raised more questions.