Leaders of 39 political parties have signed a Memorandum of Understanding to field one presidential candidate that will contest against President Muhammadu Buhari in the 2019 general elections. Leaders of the parties yesterday, converged at Yar’Adua Centre, Abuja, where the MoU was signed. The APC did not respond to the development last night, but a chieftain of the party said the alliance would collapse before the end of the year, saying those involved were incompatible and would fight while scrambling for power. Party chieftains who spoke at the event said the essence of the MoU was for all the parties in the coalition to collectively field and support a joint presidential candidate for the election. The parties that signed the MoU included, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP), Social Democratic Party (SDP), Reformed All Progressives Congress (R-APC), Labour Party (LP), African Democratic Congress (ADC), Democratic People’s Congress (DPC), Progressives Peoples Alliance (PPA), Green Party of Nigeria (GPN) and Action Alliance (AA). Others were Kowa Party (KP), National Conscience Party (NCP), Action Peoples Party (APP), Unity Party of Nigeria (UPN), Young Democratic Party (YDP), National Unity Party (NUP), Masses Movement of Nigeria (MMN), Better Nigeria Progressive Party (BNPP. Governors of Akwa Ibom State, Emmanuel Udom; Abia State, Chigozie Ikpeazu and Gombe State, Ibrahim  Hassan Dankwambo; former vice president Atiku Abubakar; former Senate president David Mark, deputy Senate president, Ike Ekweremadu; a PDP presidential aspirant, Datti Baba-Ahmed; former deputy Senate president, Ibrahim Mantu and former ministers were in attendance. Former governors at the event were; Ahmed Makarfi and Ramalan Yero (Kaduna)  Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto), Babangida Aliyu (Niger), Idris Wada (Kogi), Peter Obi (Anambra) Rashidi Ladoja (Oyo) and Theodore Orji (Abia), Gbenga Daniel (Ogun). A leader of the rAPC, Alhaji Abubakar Kawu Baraje and Senator Dino Melaye used the occasion to announce their return to the PDP. The PDP National Chairman, Prince Uche Secondus said the move became necessary in order to “rescue Nigeria from bad governance.” He said, “We are not afraid, fear has escaped. We will continue with our rescue mission until this country regains its lost glory. They (APC) will fail; they don’t know that history is recording. Time will come that they will answer all they have done in their offices. They have federal might but we have the Almighty God.” We’ll respond- APC A leader of the APC who spoke off record said the party will officially respond to what he described as “a contraption of desperate politicians” in due course.