Turkey said it established Maarif Foundation in Nigeria to take-over schools operated by Hizmet movement in the country with a view to providing ''better education for Nigerian students.'' Turkish Ambassador-designate to Nigeria, Melih Ulueren, stated this at a press briefing yesterday in Abuja to commemorate the second anniversary of the thwarted bloody coup attempt of July 15, 2016 in that country, which claimed the lives of 250 Turkish citizens.  Nigerian Tulip International Schools (NTIC) was established by the First Surat Group, a firm owned by Hizmet movement.  Turkey blamed its leader, Mr Fetullah Gulen for the failed coup, but he had repeatedly denied any involvement.  Ambassador Ulueren said his government, through Maarif Foundation, seeks to take ownership of those schools but not to close them.  ''Turkey understands the needs of Nigerian students and their families. To prevent the closure of these schools, Turkish Maarif Foundation, a public foundation was established in 2016.  ''The aim of Maarif Foundation is to assume the ownership of the schools but never to close them. Nigerian teachers will keep their jobs (with a probable reasonable increase in salaries). The Maarif Foundation so far took over the schools in a number of countries with a view to providing better education for students,'' he said.  He said the Turkish government, last year, gave 30 scholarships to Nigerian students, and that it plans to increase the number in 2018.  Speaking on the botched coup attempt, the envoy said,  ''July 15 was a trial of strength and perseverance for the Turkish democracy and the State. It makes us proud to have passed this test. All the political parties, both in government and in opposition, the uninfected elements of the Armed Forces, the Police Force and the media stood up against the putschists.  ''Above all, it was the people of Turkey from all backgrounds and political views who resisted and displayed a historic example of solidarity as they stood selflessly in front of the tanks and reclaimed their democratic rights.''