Governor Yahaya Bello of Kogi State on Wednesday inaugurated nine projects worth N36 million executed by the ActionAid Nigeria across rural communities in two local government areas of the state. The projects inaugurated include garri processing factories, maize milling factory, block making industry and bread making factory spread across Aku/Osaragada, Fulani settlement and Osara  community all in Adavi LGA of the state. 

Also commissioned include maize and rice milling factories at Okpakpata as well as maize and garri processing factories at Ofuloko all in Igalamela LGA of the state. 

Bello who was represented at the occasion by his Chief of Staff, Edward Onoja, commended ActionAid Nigeria for the projects and assured that government would give the needed supports to ensure the sustenance of the projects. 

He urged the benefitting communities, especially the youth to protect the projects and ensure they serve them better. 

According to, the intervention by ActionAid would enable the beneficiaries improve the value of their agricultural produce through processing and earn more money than they used to do. 

He advised youth to to engage in productive activities and keep off all forms of criminality especially kidnapping and armed robberies. 

Earlier, the ActionAid Nigeria Country Director, Mrs Ene Obi at the inauguration said the initiative was aimed at empowering women and youth economically to eradicate poverty and also address the problem of violent extremism prevalent amongst youths in the state. 

The Country Director who was represented by the Project Manager, Humanitarian and Resilience, Ipoade Omilaju, noted that the various interventions carried out by the ActionAid in Kogi State had to great extent helped in addressing violent crimes and enhanced peace. 

"One of the things we knew about Kogi is the restiveness of the youths and there has been lot of violence. The youth are being used as instruments of some these violent activities. 

"The initiative about this project is how  we can support the youth so that they can get themselves gainfully employed in such a way that they will be taken off the crisis.

"And that is why we have been supporting women and youth depending on what is being produced in that community. How can we support them to process it in a way that can bring in more money for them and of course, those who are using money to entice them and use them as instruments of violence would no longer be able to get them.

"To a large extent, the objective of the project has been achieved. About two months ago, Kogi was voted as the second most peaceful state in Nigeria which has never been over the last 10 years and it is as a result of some of these interventions. 

"Some of these youths have been trained on how to identify when a violence is billed to come and what they can do to curb youth violence and extreme radicalism", he said. 

He said plans are also underway to scale up the project to cover more communities in the state.