 Kannywood movie industry is blessed with gorgeous and talented actresses that grace the screen with their impeccable faces. These ladies are not just incredibly beautiful but also hardworking. These screen goddesses have over the years gained admiration and are worshiped by their fans. More importantly, they are all hot, beautiful and still single. Check out the beauties:  1.RAHAMA SADAU Rahama Sadau is a young intelligent woman who was born on December 7, 1992 in Kaduna State. She has a degree in Business Administration. She is one of the most famous kannywood actress, who became famous after starring in a movie called ‘’Gani Ga Wane’’. The actress has always had the dream of becoming a famous actress and she made it possible.   2.HADIZA GABON Hadiza Aliyu popularly known as Hadiza Gabon is one of the prettiest kannywood actresses in Nigeria, who has a very cute face. Hadiza was born on 1st June 1989 in Libreville, Republic of Gabon. She came to limelight after starring in the movie ‘’Ali yaga Ali’’.   3.NAFISAT ABDULLAHI Nafisa is one of the most talented and hardworking actresses in Kannywood. She was born on 23rd January 1991 in Jos, Plateau State. Nafisa is skinny and beautiful. Her first movie Sai Wata Rana instantly made her popular in 2010. Nafisa became famous after starring in the movie ‘’Sai Wata Rana’’.  4.FATIMA ABDULLAHI WASHA Fatima Washa is a gorgeous actress who has featured in many interesting Hausa movies including Rariya. The single beauty who possess a soft voice was born on the 21st of February 1993. She is an avid reader.  5.UMMI IBRAHIM  Ummi is known as Zee Zee by her fans. She is one of the very famous actresses that is financially loaded. Rumour has that this beauty dates only big boys and was a one time lover of Timaya the musician. The multi-talented young lady is a goal getter.  6.HAFSAT IDRIS Hafsat Idris popularly known for her debut and lead role in the movie ‘Barauniya’ is another beautiful kannywood actress who was born in Shagamu but is an indigene of Kano state. Before her foray in acting, Hafsat was a fulltime actress for nine years. 6 hot Kannywood actresses who are still single Kannywood’s 7 youngest stars Hadiza Gabon hits 1 million Instagram followers Dear Esteemed reader, As part of our drive to keep improving the content of our newspaper, we are conducting a readership survey to enable us serve you better. Kindly take two minutes of your time to fill in this questionnaire. Thank you for your time. Click here to begin