The Chairman, Kano State Public Complaint and Anti-Corruption Chairman, Muhuyi Magaji Rimingado has said that he is ready to report to police or appear before a court of law and give his testimony in respect of the trial involving the immediate past Accountant General of the state, Hajiya Aisha Mohammed Bello.

Rimingado told Daily Trust on phone yesterday that contrary to speculations that he travelled out of Kano to avoid been arrest by the police as ordered by a High Court sitting in Gezawa local government, the anti-corruption chairman said he was not running away from justice.

He said, “I am heading a commission that is fighting for justice to be done to other people and as such I will never run away from justice. The commission, the police and the court are all operating within the ambit of law. The three organizations are serving same purpose which is protecting the interest of the governed.”

The chairman, who was responding a court order issued by a state high court judge, Justice Mohammed Yahaya, ordering the office of the Assistant Inspector General of Police to arrest him, assured that he would always be ready to report to police or appear before the court whenever the need arises.

He, however, reaffirmed that nothing would deter him from discharging his responsibilities as chairman of the commission, saying he would spare nobody when it comes to issue of investigation.

In a related development, the Coalition of Kano State Civil Society Organisations Against Corruption has described as unfortunate the recent misunderstanding between the anti-corruption and judiciary,
noting that the two institutions were vital in the crusade against corruption, hence should do everything possible to avoid such. Addressing a press conference on behalf of over 20 CSOs in Kano on Tuesday, Isyaku Ahmed, said the coalition was 100 per cent in support of independence of judiciary, legislative and executives.

“We are solidly behind the Kano state anti-corruption efforts in the fight against the menace of corruption. While we recognized the rights of the court to summon the anti-corruption chairman as witness or defendant as the case may be, we strongly called on both parties to conduct themselves within the dictates of the law.

“Therefore, we are appealing to the state executive council, the legislature and judiciary to treat this matter with utmost care so that the integrity of the Kano state Anti-Corruption Commission will not be affected,” said Ahmed.