As final year cadets of 65 Regular Course Army and 66 Regular Course Navy and Air Force of the Nigerian Defence Academy (NDA) await their commissioning into the Nigerian Armed Forces in September, the Ministry of Defence has told the soon to be military officers to be ready to fight in defence of Nigeria. 

The defence ministry however told the Cadets to prepare their minds and bring their four to five years training to bear, as they await their commissioning into the nation’s armed forces. 

Permanent Secretary Ministry of Defence, Mrs. Nuratu Batagarawa made the call at the camp fire night of Camp Highland, the final bush training of final year cadets of NDA, held at Army Training Camp Kachia, Kaduna State. 

The Permanent Secretary, who was represented at the event by the Director Army Affairs in the ministry, Hassan Abdullahi said, Nigeria is now confronted with irregular warfare occasioned by terrorism and insurgency. 

She therefore expressed confidence that their training in the NDA, especially the exercise 'Camp Highland' have prepared them well enough to perform well in war against insurgency. 

According to Mrs. Batagarawa said, "I want to believe that you have taken this exercise Camp Highland very seriously as it will be very useful for you throughout your career in the defence of our father land. 

"This exercise is an avenue for you to practice all the conventional warfare, in as much as our country is confronted with irregular warfare of terrorism and insurgency. It is important not to completely throw away the lessons of conventional warfare, even though I am convinced that you have a good blend of both conventional and asymetric warfare during your training. 

"As members of the armed forces which you will soon join, you will be called upon to defend the nation. Things I will like to encourage you to take away from your training in the academy and build on are your endurance, courage and physical fitness to withstand the challenges of the job. 

"As young leaders you will be leading men of the armed forces, therefore you are expected to be exemplary in your conduct and behaviour. You must also be prudent in the management of human and material resources put under your care. 

"You must also be ready at all times to protect the teritorial integrity of our dear nation and be loyal to the constitution of the Federal Republic of Nigeria and the civil authority." The Permanent Secretary said. 

Earlier in his remarks, the NDA Commandant, Major General Adeniyi Oyebade assured that, the academy will continue to produce best officers for the nation’s armed forces. 

He however expressed appreciation appreciation the Federal Government, the Ministry of Defence and the service chiefs for their sponsor and unwavering support of the academy in all its programmes and projects.