Governor  Abdullahi Umar Ganduje said yesterday that his predecessor, Senator Rabiu Musa Kwankwaso, will not win election in his village in 2019, talk less of defeating President Muhammadu Buhari. Ganduje, who was reacting to Kwankwaso’s claim that he could defeat President Buhari should the PDP give him its ticket in 2019, said Kwankwaso’s political structure had been dismantled in Kano such that he had lost grip of the realities of Kano politics. In a statement, yesterday, signed by the Commissioner for Information, Malam Muhammad Garba, Ganduje described Kwankwaso as “a political fugitive who does not have the platform, the intellectual capability and mental ability to manage the affairs of Nigeria.” According to him, “Senator Kwankwaso’s latest utterances have confirmed the fact that he is now a confused politician who is grabbing every opportunity to re-launch himself back to relevance. “For over three years, he has been sleeping at the Senate without sponsoring even a bill that will positively impact on the lives of Nigerians. This is a clear indication that he has nothing to offer. He is just being boastful. “For over three years, Kwankwaso has been at the Senate, he has not visited Kano Central, his senatorial district. He has not executed any tangible constituency project for his people. “Since then, he has not been around and we have been here in Kano playing the game of politics the way it should be done. The good people of Kano are appreciating our modest achievements and they have expressed confidence in us,” he said. The statement said Kwankwaso’s dream to get the PDP presidential ticket remained a tall one that would never see the light of the day because those he was going to meet there were familiar with his antics. “I am surprised that Kwankwaso is now talking about people like Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, a man he persecuted and betrayed in many occasions. I am surprised he is talking about the PDP, a party he destroyed and betrayed many of the chieftains who are still there today to pay him back with his own coin,” the statement added.