Kwara youths under the aegis of Kwara Agenda, have warned those they called ' seasonal' politicians to stop attacking the Senate President, Dr Abubakar Bukola Saraki. The youths while addtresing newsmen in Ilorin, the state capital particularly asked a gubernatorial aspirant of the All Progressives Congress( APC) in the state, Yamman Abdullahi to stop his campaign of calumny against the Senate President.  Abdullahi had on Wednesday led a group on procession around parts of Ilorin metropolis, asking Saraki to declare his stand on APC and resigned his appointment as President of the Senate.  But, the coordinator of Kwara Agenda, Comrade Yaqub Kannike, called on people to be wary of antics of opposition elements in the state.  Kannike, who described the call for resignation of the Senate President as ill conceived by political spent forces, said that Saraki was and still attending to the needs of the good people of Kwara state.  "Saraki has been tested and trusted by the good people of our dear Kwara state. In fact, our God- given leader does not need to be in any political party to win elections in the state. The people of the state have said it in many fora that our political party in Kwara is " Saraki"  "The simple interpretation of the above is that the people of the state are always ready to vote for any party that our leader belongs to, at any point in time. There are so many instances to buttress this assertion. The 2015 election is still very fresh in our memory", he said.  The youth group, which commended development efforts of the Senate President, said that he had mobilised both his personal and public resources to bring succour to many homes, youths, women, widows and even institutions across the state.  "We are therefore using this forum to sensitise the people of the state to the antics of opposition elements and political spent forces like Yamman Abdullahi. They do not have anything to offer you as they will soon desert you as soon as they lose the 2019  general elections. Saraki is our God chosen leader who is always around to share in our happiness and grief. He deserves our support and we shall never cease supporting him. One good turn, definitely deserves another." the group said.