Governor Abdulfatah Ahmed of Kwara State has hinted that he might quit the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC). The governor, an ardent disciple of Senate President Bukola Saraki, said the APC did not meet the expectations of  people of Kwara State. Governor Ahmed made this known yesterday at the State Banquet Hall, Ilorin while reacting to requests of various stakeholders in Kwara Central Senatorial District, prevailing on him and the Senate President, Dr Bukola Saraki to immediately dump the APC. So far, with the exception of Saraki, all the members of the National Assembly have defected from the APC and Saraki himself has expressly indicated that he will also leave. Governor Ahmed, yesterday, recalled how key stakeholders in the ruling APC in the state built the party in 2014 alongside other notable Nigerians with high expectations but were disappointed about the failure of the government at the national level to address insecurity, economic and unemployment challenges confronting the nation. According to the governor, “We formed APC together in 2014 with the hope to meet the needs and aspirations of the people in critical areas of our national life,” claiming the leadership of the APC had failed to intervene on critical issues affecting the party and its members. He said the injustice within the party was unbearable. Gov Ahmed thanked the people of the state for their support and assured the stakeholders that he would consider their pleas and make public the new platform that would meet the aspirations of the people of the state. In his remarks, the President of Kwara State Artisans Group, Alhaji Saad Alawaye, who commended Gov. Ahmed for his numerous empowerment programmes to the informal sector, promised continued support in moving the state forward. The chairman, Association of Local Government of Nigeria (ALGON), Mr. Joshua Adekanye, who spoke on behalf of all the 16 local government chairmen, their vice chairmen and 193 councillors expressed readiness to dump the APC.