A Muslim scholar has recounted his experience after he was discharged of terrorism and domestic violence charges by a Regional Magistrate Court in South Africa. Yousuf Deedat, 65, narrated in summarized court documents mailed to Daily Trust on Sunday how what he thought a harmless phone call from the police through one Mr Rajoo on April 14, 2016, turned into a one-year ordeal in the hands of the country’s judicial system. Yousuf  Deedat is the son of Shaikh Ahmed Deedat of the South Africa-based Islamic Propagation Centre International (IPCI), who visited Kano in 1991. The Indian-born cleric died in 2005. It was gathered that after Yousuf submitted himself to the Durban North Police Station, he was informed that the order for his arrest was from ‘high authority’ and that he would be taken to the Magistrate Court in Verulam, the following day, April 15, 2016, which was a Friday. The former Secretary General of the Trust known as the Islamic Propagation Centre International, said the violation charges were soon increased to allegations of terrorism and belonging to ISIS, and that with the help of his lawyer, he was able to get bail in the sum of 1000 Rand. Deedat said after his bail, he investigated the source of the complaint against him and learnt that it had to do with one Yemeni, Mr Faizel, whom he refused to sell property to, who was using his wife and his contacts in the Department of Justice to pressure him to sell to him. He said while his ordeal with the justice system continued as he was banned from visiting his family in Verulam, during Eid celebrations, the charges were added up and in January 2017, eight new charges were included and read out to him in court to which he denied. The charges border on: domestic violence contravention, pointing of firearm, assault, crimen injuria, assault, contravention of the harassment act and statutory intimidation. If he were convicted of the charges he would have served a maximum of 15 years imprisonment. In one year of trial, in which he defended himself without an attorney, Deedat proved his innocence, arguing that the claims by Samiya Raschid that he assaulted and pointed a gun at her were frivolous. “The evidence of Samiya Raschid is a total fabrication and a lie. I made it clear to this court that all the allegations that she’s mentioned are all trumped up,” he said. After months of trial, he was on March 31, 2017 discharged on each of the counts by Magistrate B. Rawheath, who cited lack of ‘corroborating evidence’ in the account of Samiya Raschid. The court held that she was a single witness in the allegation, adding that the testimony of the police officer, who initially made the arrest of Deedat, bordered on the procedure for investigation and did not touch on the fact in issue. Following his acquittal, Deedat on August 8, 2017 sued Ms Leanne Elison and the Minister of Justice. He claimed the Verulam magistrate, who issued his arrest warrant, “failed to exercise her discretion to have requested a written sworn affidavit from the complainant, setting out the allegations of the breach of the terms and conditions of the domestic violence order.” He claimed he suffered losses amounting to one million Rand as a result of the ordeal. He had earlier served a notice to the Minister of Justice and Constitutional Development and Magistrate Leanne Ellison for commencement of legal action under ‘Section 83 of the Limitation of Legal Proceedings Act No 40 of 2002: Malicious Prosecution and Unlawful Arrest.’ Earlier, Deedat in 2016 also sued the South African State for 15 million Rands over “his arrest and detention on being branded an ISIS terrorist, without proof in court, for distributing ISIS-related Islamic pamphlets at a Durban school”. Deedat said his experience shows how easily anybody can be accused and made to lose their liberty and how it takes determination to get justice.