The Nigeria Police Force (NPF) on Tuesday paraded a local council representative along with seven other suspects over links to alleged killings and attacks on communities in Benue State. NPF spokesman, DCP Jimoh Moshood who paraded the suspects at the Force Headquarters in Abuja said principal suspect, Benjamin Tivfa is a Serving Honourable Councillor of Fidi Council Ward, Makurdi. Moshood explained that Tivfa admitted to have supplied arms and ammunition to the bandits for their criminal activities, noting that, two AK47 Rifles and 436 Rounds of AK47 ammunition were recovered from them by Police operatives. He said four suspects who admitted to being members of the Benue State Livestock Guards included; Daniel Kyase, Alhaji Adajo Tomza, Msugh Teraki and Sunday Cheche. Three other suspects paraded were: Victor Ganabe, Julius Avaan and Terkula Udeh. He said the IGP Intelligence Response Team (IRT) trailed and arrested six of the suspects in their hideout in a hotel in Naka village, Benue State and recovered the arms and ammunition. He said the bandits confessed that the councillor is a member of their gang and responsible for supply of arms and ammunition including money to finance their operations. Moshood said the councillor also admitted to have bought fifteen rounds of AK47 ammunition from another suspect, Sunday Cheche and to have provided money to finance the operations of the gang. He said the bandits admitted to have carried out several killings and armed robbery attacks on innocent people in different locations in Benue State. He said investigation is in progress to arrest other members of the bandits at large, adding that they will be arraigned in court on completion of investigation. While fielding questions from reporters, Moshood noted that all those who conspired in the supply of guns and ammunition to bandits in Benue state would be investigated and made to face the law no matter how highly placed. He also said thirteen suspects have been arrested in connection with recent violent attacks in Plateau state, noting that eleven have already been paraded in Plateau state. Although, he did not mention the names of two suspects so as not to jeopardize ongoing investigations, Moshood gave the names of eleven suspects to include: Biliaminu Abdullahi, Samaila Saleh, Muhammadu Kabiru, Aminu Mohammed and Alhassan Saidu. Others are: Abubakar Adam, Gazali Isah, Hamza Inusa, Yahuza Yau, Dahiru Ahmed and Friday Musa, adding that exhibits recovered from them included five AK47 rifles and two live cartridges.