The Nigerian Senate has resolved to investigate the circumstances that led to the death of Miss Linda Angela Igwetu, the NYSC Corps member who was allegedly shot by a Police Officer Two nights ago.  

Miss Angela was shot just a day prior to her Passing out parade, She interned with outsource global during her service year. 

Senator Atai Aidoko, citing order 42 and 52, raised the issue, stating that Ms Angela was shot while on her way home with her friends, she was shot and rushed to Garki hospital, Abuja. 

Commenting on the Motion, the President of the Senate, Dr.Bukola Saraki decried the action of the Policeman. 

The Senate President said : “How could this have happened, how could the officer mistakenly or otherwise have shot in such a way that lead to this young ladies death?”
 
“Every Nigerian life is important. Especially young ones that are just about to start their own lives and careers. This is a loss that could have been avoided. We must continue to show that we will continue to defend our people and defend them here. Let us stand and observe a one-minute silence for Ms. Linda,” Saraki said. 

The Senate thereafter observed a one-minute silence for Miss Linda Angela Igwetu.

Dr Saraki stressed the importance of every single Nigerian and demanded for accountability from public institutions charged with protecting the lives of citizens. 

In 2017, the 8th Senate passed the Compulsory Treatment and Care victims of Gunshots act. The bill mandates every hospital to treat gunshot victims immediately without any police report. There are penalties for its violation by hospitals, doctors, nurses and the police. 
 
Signing the bill, Dr Saraki said, “By the passage of this bill, the Senate has moved to ensure that every hospital in Nigeria, both public and private, must accept to treat victims of gunshot wounds without any clearance from the police”.

Prior to this bill, Policemen had erroneously assumed that gunshot victims are armed robbers and demanded police reports before any treatment by doctors and health care facilities. 

The Senate therefore, mandated; it’s Committee on Youth and Sports to investigate the death of the NYSC Corps member; its Committee on Health to investigate the non-treatment of the patient, and its Committee on Police Affairs to investigate the cause of the incident.

All three Committees have been directed to report back to the Senate in two weeks