The Nigeria Army on Monday said though Boko Haram terrorists had attempted an attack on troops at Kwakwa and Chingori communities in Bama area of Borno State, they were repelled by the Army troops. In a statement signed by the Director of Army Public Relations, Brigadier General Texas Chukwu, he explained that the terrorists planned the attack when they realised  that the vehicles of the Army was bugged down due to the difficult terrain ‎in Bama.  He said the terrorists also attempted to cart away troops operational vehicles, but were successfully repelled by our gallant troops with the support of the Nigerian Air Force.  Brigadier General Chukwu added that the Army troops ‎Killed 22 members of the Boko Haram terrorists while several others escaped with gunshot wounds.  He said, "efforts are being intensified by the troops to get the fleeing members of the Boko Haram terrorists.  ‎"Unfortunately, one officer and a soldier sustained injuries and are currently receiving medical attention at the military medical facility.''  According to him, reports that there was an attack on soldiers and capturing of military vehicles by Boko Haram in Bama Local Government Area of Borno State was blown out of proportion.  He said, "‎The Nigerian Army wishes to state categorically that the report is not only untrue but misleading as the said report is blown out of proportion by the media."  "Contrary to the report, the Nigerian Army wishes to put the record straight on the issue and assure members of the public particularly residents of the North East to disregard the report as their safety is guaranteed.  "While the Nigerian Army would not join issues with the media, certain facts must be reported with caution particularly now that numerous successes have been recorded by the troops in the fight against insurgency."  "Members of the public are hereby advised to disregard the report and go about their legitimate businesses as the Nigerian Army is on top of the situation."  "It is my well-thought-out opinion that in future, media practitioners should endeavour to verify facts from the appropriate military authority before rushing to the press".