Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode has hosted an 11-year-old hyperrealist artist, Kareem Waris Olamilekan, who drew a portrait of French President, Emmanuel Macron, in two hours on the spot during the President’s visit to the new Afrika Shrine in Lagos. Ambode, who hosted the artist alongside his parents, teachers and instructor yesterday, promised to give him educational support, as well as help to nurture his talent to become a great artist later in life. The governor also pledged to support Olamilekan’s instructor, Adeniyi Adewole Wasiu, who is said to own an Arts Academy, Ayowole Academy of Arts, where he trains young artists. Briefing journalists after the governor hosted the artist at Lagos House in Alausa, Ikeja, Commissioner for Tourism, Arts and Culture, Mr Steve Ayorinde, said the development was basically to appreciate and encourage the young hyperrealist as well to assure him of the readiness of the State Government to give him the needed support. According to Ayorinde, since the works of the young artist became public knowledge, the State Government had taken special interest in his case, saying that the objective of government was to ensure good education and training for Waris to become a great artist later in life. “The Ministry of Education has been involved from day one since the story was reported but our Ministry (Tourism, Arts and Culture) would also be monitoring Waris. He is already in JSS1; he is talented as an artist but then that is not the only subject that he would be taking. “We want him to be a successful well-rounded student first and foremost and of course as an artist. It is a long haul thing but first good education and let him continue as a good artist,” the Commissioner said. Responding, Olamilekan said he was extremely thrilled to meet with President Macron and Governor Ambode, saying the development was a life-changing moment for him. “I thank God for this. What has happened in my life through my son is something I never thought would happen to me but this is a miracle. I am so happy. I want to thank Governor Ambode for all he has done for us and also my son’s instructor who trained him, as well as his teachers and mother,” Olamilekan said.