The Attah Igala’s royal stool has various symbols and insignias of office which are of great significance. The author of “Who is Who in Igalaland” and Convener, Igala Cultural Festival, Mr Hilary Amodu, explained some of these insignias of office of Attah Igala and their significance. The current Attah Igala is His Royal Majesty, Dr Idakwo Michael Ameh-Oboni II, who ascended the throne of his ancestors in 2013 as the 24th Attah Igala following the demise of Attah Dr Aliyu Obaje. Ejubejuailo (The Attah’s pectoral mask) He said the mask is one of the most important Attah’s insignia of office which is used to scare enemies and consequently protect himself from attacks. Hilary said the mask is also carefully designed to add glamour to the beautiful appearance of the Attah Igala. “The awesome nature of the mask makes it near impossible for anybody to directly stare the Attah Igala in the face.  “Ejubejuailo” derived its name from its fearful and terrifying nature which means “The eye that brings fear to another eye.” “Whenever the Attah puts on the mask, he becomes fearless and military which ultimately enhances his superior status among his contemporaries. “Several Igala scholars have traced the early appearance of this royal object to the days of Attah Ayegba Oma’Idoko. Other traditions have it that it was acquired from the ancient Benin Kingdom,” he said. Onunu-Ere (Royal Crown) The Royal Crown is yet another important item of the Attah Igala’s royal regalia. It is traditionally well designed cap with highly valued jewels. “The highly prized and popular red parrot’s feather ‘Úloko’ is generously fixed round its edges to give it an amazing outlook. These feathers were knitted together with cowries and a couple of other designs to make it more beautiful and attractive. “It is distinctive in the sense that only one king in the whole Igalaland wears it and that is the Attah Igala. “It is the symbol of supremacy and one who wears it becomes the sovereign ruler of the Igala Kingdom. Another importance of Onunu-Ere is the mythical power attached to it,” he said. According to him, record has shown that the royal crown has been in existence right from immemorial. Unyiale Attah (Royal Umbrella) This is specially designed and usually hoisted majestically to protect the Attah from the sun, rain and enhance his royal status. The Unyiale is highly treasured by the traditional institution. Its elegance and force of attraction to the personality of the Attah Igala can scarcely be overemphasized. It is of great beauty and eye-catching. The umbrella beautifies the seat and surroundings of the Attah Igala in any important occasion. The use of umbrella in Igala Kingdom in the ancient times was an exclusive privilege enjoyed by only the Ata Igala. Oka kpai Okwu (Royal beads) The ‘Okwu’ is a beautifully designed bead that is blue in colour while the ‘Oka’ is round with a hole in the middle. The two are important objects of royalty that are usually worn on the wrist and neck respectively by highly placed traditional rulers. The Attah Igala’s neck, wrists and anklets are usually adorned with special coral beads to enhance his status as the royal father and sovereign ruler of Igala kingdom. According to the narration of Mr Amodu, in addition, the Attah Igala’s traditional regalia “Ichakpa” are usually made of ornamental beads thereby making him the cynosure of all eyes each time he is gorgeously dressed. “The beads form a large part of the Attah Igala’s make-up.  He wears beads on the wrists-beaded royal crown (Onunu-Ere), jewelled gown (Ichakpa) and the royal shoe (Obijim) all beautifully decorated with beads,” he said. Akpa-Ayegba (The Stool) Akpa is the throne. It is a specially made stool that only the Attah sits on. It is not an ordinary stool; certain charms were used as protective power in the making of the stool. This is meant to safeguard the life of the Attah Igala.  It is a taboo for any other person to sit on it. The Akpa Ayegba is traced to the reign of Attah Ayegba Oma’Idoko thus, the name ‘Akpa Ayegba.’ It is a sacred object that is held in high esteem in Igalaland. The use of this royal stool is important because the Attah Igala does not sit on any type of seat but on “Akpa Ayegba” that is meant for the highest placed person in the kingdom. Important traditional religious rituals are never carried out by the Attah Igala unless he sits on the stool that is generally believed to have been used by the ancestors. Okwute (The Sword) The “Okwute” is an iron object shaped in form of a sword or staff with some specially prepared charms tied to it. It is a ritual staff used mainly for the worship of the ancestors. In the palace, nine of these ritual staff are recognised as the spear of the nation. They are mainly reserved for wars. Mr Amodu pointed out they are usually sanctified annually in preparation for sudden attack on the kingdom. In the event of no war, they are used for ancestral worship. The “Okwute” is great in Igala kingdom because it is the ultimate source of power and legitimacy to the traditional institution. Okpa-Attah (Sceptre) This is one of the oldest insignia of office.  It is commonly known as a symbol of the Attah Igala’s power and authority. “Igala historians did not in any way reflect the use of the sceptre in the early phase of kingship in the kingdom. “It was traced to the 20th Century which precisely occasioned the days of the colonial rule in Nigeria. It is therefore of note to state that the first Attah Igala to use the sceptre was Attah Obaje Ocheje and Attah Aliyu Obaje who was promoted after his enthronement, following his meritorious services to the then Northern Regional Government and was given the sceptre as a symbol of authority,” he said.