The Coalition of Civil Society groups in Osun State who monitored direct governorship primary election of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state have observed that the concept is capable to curbing inducement if delegate and manipulation that usually characterize such process. In the direct primary all card carrying members of the party in all the 332 wards across the state voted for the governorship aspirants. The Chief of Staff to the Governor, Alhaji Gboyega Oyetola won and became the candidate of the party for the September 22nd governorship election in the state. Presenting a report in Osogbo, the state caoital on behalf of the observers that monitor the Osun APC direct governorship primary election, Comrade Wale Adebisi said the concept made it difficult for aspirant to be able to camp and bribe the delegates because if the huge number. "The direct primary system reduced manipulation and inducement of voters with money. It would strengthen internal democracy. We call for its adoption in subsequent elections in Nigeria, especially the 2019 general elections." He said the direct system should, henceforth, be used in the election of councillors, local government chairmen, senators and president. “From all variables and indices available to us on the field, the direct primary is actually the best so as to encourage internal, all inclusive democracy, because every party member is involved," he said." “It eliminates the emerging trend where aspirants camped delegates and bribe each with huge amount of money. It also eliminates manipulation to a large extent," Adebisi added. “We hereby encourage every other political party to embrace this process of direct party primary so as to improve the internal democracy of the party politics which will gradually reduce the issue of financial inducement." “Direct primary election process truly attests to the fact that democracy is truly for the people." “Irrespective of all shortcomings and drawbacks observed during the exercise, the process is still the best because it is transparent, free and fair,’’ he said. This is different from usual process where only selected party delegates will participate in the process. The delegates are usually camped and bribed. "We observed with keen interest the enthusiasm displayed by the party electorates across the state and the peaceful conduct of the exercise which is highly commendable on the part of the party leadership in the state," Adebisi added.