Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) Friday tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti was not turned to a do-or-die affair. The party stated this during a protest on what the alleged police brutality on Governor Ayodele Fayose on Wednesday. State chairman of PDP, Hon. Moshood Salvador flanked by members of the state Working Committee and local government chairmen of the party, told newsmen that the development in Ekiti where the sitting governor was reportedly manhandled was despicable and unacceptable. Salvador also called on the Inspector General of Police to investigate the alleged assault on the governor and punish any officer found culpable. “We expect the President who is the father of all to ensure that the present political landscape is not senselessly heated up. He should ensure the election in Ekiti state is not a do-or-die affair”, he said. The PDP chairman emphasized that election should not be a do-or-die affair and the PDP as a political party believes in peaceful election where the will of the people is made to prevail. According to him, this is the message that the party has continued to preach to all its members across the length and breadth of the state. “We are not interested in anything but peace. What I preach to our youths which I also encourage our elders is to conduct themselves in a peaceful manner and shun violence”, he said. The state Organizing Secretary, Hon. Kunle Okunola said, “Attacking a sitting governor is unfortunate. Barricading the Government House is unfortunate. This development might lead to truncating our democracy and this is why PDP is voicing out. We all suffered for this democracy and we don’t want anything to happen to it”. He urged electoral body and the security agencies to conduct a free and fair election which everybody would be proud of. END  Ensure Ekiti election is not do-or-die affair, Lagos PDP tells Buhari From Abdullateef Aliyu, Lagos Lagos State chapter of the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) yesterday tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to ensure that the Saturday’s governorship election in Ekiti was not turned to a do-or-die affair. The party stated this during a protest on what the alleged police brutality on Governor Ayodele Fayose on Wednesday. State chairman of PDP, Hon. Moshood Salvador flanked by members of the state Working Committee and local government chairmen of the party, told newsmen that the development in Ekiti where the sitting governor was reportedly manhandled was despicable and unacceptable. Salvador also called on the Inspector General of Police to investigate the alleged assault on the governor and punish any officer found culpable. “We expect the President who is the father of all to ensure that the present political landscape is not senselessly heated up. He should ensure the election in Ekiti state is not a do-or-die affair”, he said. The PDP chairman emphasized that election should not be a do-or-die affair and the PDP as a political party believes in peaceful election where the will of the people is made to prevail. According to him, this is the message that the party has continued to preach to all its members across the length and breadth of the state. “We are not interested in anything but peace. What I preach to our youths which I also encourage our elders is to conduct themselves in a peaceful manner and shun violence”, he said. The state Organizing Secretary, Hon. Kunle Okunola said, “Attacking a sitting governor is unfortunate. Barricading the Government House is unfortunate. This development might lead to truncating our democracy and this is why PDP is voicing out. We all suffered for this democracy and we don’t want anything to happen to it”. He urged electoral body and the security agencies to conduct a free and fair election which everybody would be proud of.