The Federal government has said that it is committed towards resolving the lingering boundary crisis between the people of Igbeagu community in Izzi local government area of Ebonyi state and their neighbour in Iyala from Cross River state. The Minister of Interior Rtd. Lt. Gen Abulrahman Dambazau stated this at the Government House, Abakaliki on Tuesday after he visited some communities affected since the crisis reignited last month. Dambazau, who also expressed dismay over the wanton of destruction of houses in the area, noted that children and women were mostly affected. He added that the federal government would scheduled a meeting  where the two governors, Engr. David Umahi of Ebonyi state and his counterpart from Cross River, Prof. Ben Ayade would sit together and proffer solution towards ending the crisis. "And l want to deliver this message on behalf of President Muhammadu Buhari that whatsoever we need to do to ensure peace between your state (Ebonyi) and Cross River, we will do it. Dambazau however assured that the federal government is committed towards protection of lives and properties of Nigerians. "Mr. President will not allow people to go freely carrying arms to commit violence against people,” he said. He further commended the Nigerian Police, Army and other security operatives deployed to maintain peace in the areas to keep to their assigned responsibilities. "But we cannot leave this alone to them because we don't want a situation where they will always come when there is crisis. "The federal government is determined to partner with the two states so as to find lasting solution to this crisis," he stressed. Governor, Umahi however accused his counterpart Prof. Ayade of been lackadaisical in resolving the crisis. Our correspondent who visited the two affected communities observed that Igbeagu had about 3,000 displaced persons who are taken refuge in school. At the Iyala community, the people go about their normal businesses as none of their property was affected.