An All Progressives Congress chieftain, Alhaji Lawal Adamu Usman, has said the only way to ensure continuation of unity in the APC is to sustain internal democracy in electing leaders at different levels. Alhaji Lawal, who is popularly known as Mr Lawal, and an aspirant for the Kaduna Central senatorial seat stated this at a stakeholders meeting of the party in Kaduna on Friday. He said democracy does not only guarantee the opportunity to contest election but also provides avenue for the conduct of free and fair elections. According to him, imposition of candidates is detrimental to the growth of the nation’s democracy. “The basic difference between the APC and other parties in 2015 was the application of justice and fairness, so we must sustain it if we are to remain united,’’ Mr. La said. He said the internal conflict  in the APC is a  signal of  challenges the party would  face  in the 2019 elections, adding that “we have to do a lot to avoid creating conflicts out of selfish interests otherwise our opponents would surprise us.’’ According to the aspirant, Kano crisis should be a priority for the Tinubu committee because of its uniqueness and strategic significance to the party. “We need unity not disunity, its only when the party is united that the merger that led to our victory will be useful,’’ he said. He alleged that recent investigations in Kaduna APC revealed that some influential members of the party were working towards imposing unpopular candidates during the ward congress elections with view to paving way for them in the forthcoming primary elections. “This is dangerous and we must stop it, otherwise the crisis would consume us,’’ he said. On the security situation, Mr LA called for vigilance in all parts of the country. “The continuous attacks by Boko Haram,  herdsmen and armed bandits or cattle rustlers  pose serious threat to the peaceful co-existence as such state governments must assist the federal government to arrest the situation,” he said. He further urged state governments to engage youths as special marshals to assist security personnel in the fight against insurgency in the country.