The Catholic Archbishop of Abuja, John Cardinal Onaiyekan has tasked President Muhammadu Buhari to fulfill his campaign promises of ensuring the security of all Nigerians’ regardless of their tribe, religion or ethnic group. He made the call at the peaceful protest held in Abuja, tagged: “Peaceful March and Prayer for Nigeria.” It was attended by hundreds of Christian faithfuls. The peaceful march which began with a Mass at the National Christian Centre, Abuja saw over 90 parishes, associations, and church societies in attendance. “Our nation is dear in need of peace. The patience of those who speak peace and strive to live in peace is being over stretched every day. We must continue to work for peace with the support of the graces which comes to us every day from God. We, who are Christians, need to counter the evil intensions of those who desire a nation that is soaked in blood. The time has come for us to unite and to act as one people with a destiny, a focus and a programme of fulfilling the desires of our own people,” Onaiyekan said. He noted that when this government came into power, they promised they will protect everybody and guarantee security saying that the government isn’t living up to its promises. Speaking during the mass, before the protest began, the Primate of the Church of Nigeria, Anglican Communion, The Most Rev. Nickolas Okoh, said though Nigerians from every religion have been badly dealt with by the armed herdsmen, Nigerians will not surrender their country to intimidation. “We are aware that Muslims, Christians and even unbelievers have been killed by these people. This is a psychological warfare and we must not be intimidated. The poor handling of the situation by the government is noticeable. Leaders especially at the centre must do their best to protect the people. “When the government came to power, we hoped that everybody will be part and parcel of the government. Soon enough it became clear that it was rhetoric. Government should try to keep its own part by protecting the people not a section of the country. Not some individuals,” Okoh said. Also speaking, the National President of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN) Rev Dr. Olasupo Ayokunle, ably represented by Revd. Dr. Stephen Adegbite described the Benue killings as one too many. He noted that, if the federal government doesn’t know the people killings Nigerians and if they can’t protect Nigerian citizens, they should resign. The CAN President also passed a vote of no confidence on the security agencies adding that they have failed in their responsibilities. He called on the heads to resign their appointments without further delay. Similarly, the CAN Chairman, Abuja chapter, Revd. Dr. Jonah Samson, said the killing, destruction and brutality across the across must be contained by the security forces. According to him, CAN’s position is that the government should bring an end to the killings without further delay. Also, the Chairman Planning Committee, Rev Fr. Patrick Alumuku, urged the Federal Government to be directly involved in bringing peace to the country, saying that there would be no development, progress and future in the country without peace in the land. “We intend to send a strong message to the nation that life is important and without life there will be no nation. What we have experienced in this nation is completely unacceptable, unjustifiable and it does not lead to good governance. As everybody is saying enough is enough I don’t think those are strong words but to say that we cannot go on this way. “We are calling for peace in Nigeria and we know that without peace there can be no development, progress and there can be no future so we are praying for peace. We are expecting that peace will come to reign in our land. We want a stop to the killings,” Alumuku said. The protests were coming on the heels of the killing of two priests, Rev. Fr. Joseph Gor and Rev. Fr. Felix Tyolaha, a catechist and several other parishioners of St. Ignatius Catholic Church, Ukpor-Mbalom in Gwer Local Government Area of Benue State.