Chairman of the Senate Committee on Police Affairs, Senator Abu Ibrahim (APC, Katsina), yesterday, said President Muhammadu Buhari will win the 2019 presidential election with or without members of the nPDP. Ibrahim, who is the chairman of the Buhari Support Group (BSG), punctured the claim that members of the nPDP played key roles in the electoral victory of President Buhari in 2015. The ranking lawmaker spoke in an interview following alleged moves by the nPDP members, including Senate President, Bukola Saraki, to dump the All Progressives Congress (APC). “Politics is politics. Elections are coming; nPDP is dead since the day its members joined the APC. There is nothing like nPDP. That group should not exist. “Nigerians should not take it (nPDP) like a new group; there is nothing like that again as there is nothing like ACN, CPC,” he said. Ibrahim said the agitation by the members of the so-called nPDP was to extract certain concessions ahead of the 2019 general elections. “APC will win with or without nPDP; we will put more efforts and we will win. They must be reasonable in their demands. For example, if they demand for the Senate president position, we cannot give them that because it is an elective position. But if it is ministerial appointments or any other, it could be looked into. “I disagree with you that they were responsible for the victory of President Buhari in 2015. In fact, there was an nPDP member who begged the president to campaign for him in 2015 in Gombe State,” he added. He said the performance of the president in critical areas including the economy had ballooned his popularity across the country. “If an unbiased person goes round the country, he would definitely see what this administration has done in critical spheres of the country. “I know PMB very well; he is an honest person of integrity. If you go and ask him, ‘Wallahi’ he will not allow you to rig for him. PDP as a brand is dead and that’s why the members of the party are angry,” he also said.