There was mild drama at the Grade C Customary court, Oja-Oba, Ibadan, yesterday when a mother of four, Kayode Mariam, declared before the audience that her lover impregnated her under her husband’s roof. Mariam, along with her lover, Rauf Ololade, had told the court two weeks ago that her husband, Kayode Folarin, was not the owner of the pregnancy she bears because “he is not a responsible man.” But Folarin argued that by his calculation that the pregnancy should be five months old, it belonged to him, saying he only stopped having sexual relationship with his wife when he discovered her alleged unfaithfulness. “Please, kindly allow justice to prevail,” Folarin appealed. When the court asked Ololade two weeks ago how he was sure it was he who impregnated Mariam when he knew she was a housewife residing with her husband, the lover, who was not in court yesterday, replied that the only time he had sex with Mariam was seven months ago and he believed the intercourse was fruitful. To ascertain the true ownership of the controversial pregnancy, the court, two weeks ago, ordered that Mariam undergo a pregnancy test at the Adeoyo State Hospital, Ibadan. The president of the court, Chief Odunade Ademola, announced the result of the pregnancy yesterday as five months and two weeks old, adding the result indicated Mariam’s legal husband, Folarin, was its rightful owner. But the housewife maintained her stance that her lover owned the pregnancy and vowed she would rather go to jail than allow it to be given to her husband. Mariam said, “It is true that I was under my husband’s roof when my new love had sex with me only once. But I am assuring you that the pregnancy doesn’t belong to Folarin. I am ready to go to jail because of this and I am ready to die for this. Folarin is not the rightful owner of the pregnancy,” she insisted. Chief Ademola adjourned the case till September 19, 2018 for further hearing, adding that the court may carry out a DNA test on the baby after delivery.