The Minister of Information and Culture, Alhaji Lai Mohammed, yesterday said 15 revenue generating agencies of the Federal Government refused to remit N8.1 trillion to the Federation Account between 2010 and 2015. The Minister made the disclosure in Osogbo, Osun State, while commissioning the Channelization, De-silting, Flood Control and Development of Okoko and Ogbagba Rivers, phases one and two. Alhaji Mohammed, who represented President Muhammadu Buhari at the commissioning, said the discovery by the auditing firm KPMG was worse than the N1.34 trillion stolen by 55 public officials between 2006 and 2013. “Recently, the Federal Government ordered an audit (between 2010 and 2015, of 15 government revenue generating agencies. The result was the discovery that the agencies had not remitted over N8.1tr to the Federation Account. This amount was about six times the N1.34 trillion that was stolen between 2006 and 2015. “It is also the equivalent, on the average, of the country’s yearly national budget! Imagine, for a moment, how many kilometres of roads could have been constructed, how many kilometres of rail tracks that could have been laid, and how many modern hospitals and schools that could have been built if that money had been properly accounted for,” the minister said. He said the projects being executed by the present administration, including the one that was commissioned in Osogbo - one of 53 being commissioned across the country - could have long been completed but for the ‘massive looting’ of the treasury by previous administrations, which deprived the nation of infrastructural growth. Alhaji Mohammed who said every kobo that was not looted is a plus for development, added that it was the reason government would not stop talking about those, who have looted the public treasury, despite the pushback from their apologists. While corroborating the ministers disclosure, Governor Rauf Aregbesola of the State of Osun said if the N8.1trn was remitted, his state would have received N75bn as part of its share, which would have been enough to pay workers salaries and execute other projects.