‎The Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has said President Muhammadu Buhari's 'handlers' have chosen to shroud the issue of his persistent illness in secrecy. The party said Nigerians were not made to know the nature of the President's illness and identity of his doctors abroad, adding such was a bad omen for the nation's democracy. Addressing newsmen on Tuesday in Abuja, the PDP National Publicity Secretary, Kola Ologbondiyan, said ‎the party was not against the President taking care of his health but that the truth should be told about his state of health. "It is however very unfortunate that the President and his handlers had chosen to shroud the issue of his persistent illness in secrecy under a government that prides itself on claims of transparency and integrity. "Whereas we have nothing against Mr. President’s decision to take care of his ailing health as we are all subject to human frailties, Nigerians detest the deception, lies and beguiling that had trailed the handling of his unabating health issue. "Even as we speak, Nigerians are not aware of the ailment our President is suffering from and the identity of the doctors and the hospital attending to him. "Moreover, it is unfortunate that President Buhari would always embark on medical tourism abroad when his administration has completely refused to address the poor state of the health sector in Nigeria, for which medical personnel are currently on strike across the nation. "In conclusion, we urge the Presidency to note that shrouding the issue of President Buhari’s illness in secrecy, just for political gains, is neither in the interest of the President nor that of our nation at large. "Sordidly, the handlers of Mr. President appear to be more concerned about the next election instead of the consequences of a failing health and the blatant breaches of our constitution. "The PDP therefore counsels President Buhari to be well guided and take charge of his health challenges. "PDP notes the confirmation of the Presidency that President Muhammadu Buhari is unwell, ailing and unfit to attend to state matters, resulting to his latest journey to the United Kingdom for medical attention," the party said.