The Jama'atu Nasril Islam (JNI) has condemned the twin bomb blast in Mubi, Adamawa state which occurred when the Muslim faithful were observing the afternoon prayer killing over 85 people.  JNI in a statement signed by its Secretary-General, Dr. Khalid Abubakar Aliyu also condemned the continuous killings of human lives in Zamfara state by armed bandits and called on the public to be vigilant at all times.  JNI said, “Mubi attack is highly devastating and cruel to say the least and therefore strongly condemned. No fewer than 85 lives were reported lost so far and many victims in hospitals with lean or no chance to make it out alive. “The recent Mubi attack is coming at a time when Nigerians were heaving a sigh of relief as news of suicide attacks are becoming history due to the decapitation of insurgency in the North East, Nigeria. It seems the security outfits in the area and the public have lowered their gourds and relaxed, a situation taken advantage of by the insurgents.” Besides, the Muslim umbrella body equally frowned at the killings in Zamfara State saying, “The repeated armed banditry is becoming normal, as if people have no conscience that on daily basis human lives are massacred in Zamfara satate, yet no significant effort is seen being put to avert the senseless reoccurrences.” it harped on the need for continued vigilance especially by the members of the public not to allow unscrupulous elements take advantage of their credulity, to wreak havoc in the society.  It called on security agencies to appraise their mode of operation to meet up with dynamic challenges of criminality adding, “As the criminals continue to change tactics.”  JNI commiserated with the people of Benue, Borno, Kaduna, Nasarawa and Zamfara states over the repeated loss of lives, as a result of coordinated attacks by enemies of peace.

It called on the Government to move in with all seriousness it deserves and take a definite position on criminals in all ramifications, and bring the incidences to a final end saying, “The loss of lives as experienced around the country is becoming normalized in the psyche of Nigerians, which in itself is an aberration of doctrinal teachings.” It however called on the public to intensify prayers and continuously seek for forgiveness from Allah (SWT) to emancipate recurring terrific situations. It added, “We make bold to say that often when Muslims are attacked especially in mosques, nothing is heard from those who are supposed to-be-heard, nor commiserate with the Muslims, or the story is downplayed entirely. Most politics be played with the life killed.  “We nonetheless, pray for the repose of lost lives in all the incidences, and pray for the recovery of the injured victims, the fortitude to bear the loss to those who lost their loved ones and above all restoration of peace in the affected areas and Nigeria in general.”