The Nigerian Army troops on Operation Whirl Stroke (OPWS) operating in Benue, Nasarawa, Taraba and Zamfara states has killed 35 armed herdsmen in Benue state. The troops were conducting a four prong clearance operations during the weekend. In a statement signed by the Acting Director Defence Information, ‎ Brigadier General John Agim, on Monday, he added that the clearance operation were across Gwer West, Logo and Guma LGA’s of Benue State. Brigadier General John Agim said that the troops made contact with heavily armed herdsmen around lower Benue and a militia camp at Chetarer village. The troops engaged ‎the militia and followed the pursuit with M135 Helicopter of their air component. He added that the troops killed 35 armed herdsmen while a large number of them escaped with gun shot injuries. "However, one personnel was killed in action (KIA), 2 sustained slight injuries but have been treated and discharged ‎and a personnel is still missing in action. In another development, the troops ‎at Umaisha and Toto Villages had ambushed the militia following a tip-off of a planned attack on the two villages. The troops killed one of the militia recovered ‎weapons such as 1 x G3 rifle, 193 x 17.62 mm NATO, 81xG3 rifle ammunition, a locally-made pistol and 1 FN magazine filled with rounds were recovered and 1 militia was killed. Similarly, one Abdullahi Adamu, ‎a suspected herdsman at Rukubi in Doma LGA of Nasarawa state was arrested in possession of an ID card of the vigilante group of Nigeria, Nasarawa state command and a photograph in which he posed with an AK47 rifle. The suspect is still under interrogation and will be handed over to the police for prosecution after preliminary investigation. Also, OPWS in Nasarawa State arrested one Musa Habu, aged 32 years, at Kolo close to Umiasha, in Toto Local Government Council. Items recovered from the suspect include one locally made pistol, 2 x cartridges, 1 Tecno phone and one hundred and thirty Naira only. Preliminary investigation revealed that the suspected is linked with some suspected militia in the locality. The suspect has been handed over to the DSS for further necessary action. In the same vein, OPWS sector 3 Taraba troops on patrol through Kwesati, Manya-Garagun axis made contact with 8 bandits who were arrested while armed with 2 AK47 rifle, 1x K2 rifle and 2x locally made gun. Ammunitions recovered from them include 56 rounds of 7.6mm, 25 rounds of k2, 3x cartridge, charms, phones amongst other items. Suspects and items will be handed over to DSS for further investigation.