Banks, restaurants, pharmacies, telecommunication firms, groceries and other business outfits operating within the 1004 Estate in Victoria Island Lagos are facing complete shutdown following constant threats by officials of the Home Owners Resident Association (HORA), residents alleged. They claimed that the officials have been demanding multiple rents and electricity charges from the firms, which have already been paid in advance. Most of the businesses, including banks, crèches and internet firms have either been disconnected from power supply within the estate or threatened with disconnection by the officials. Some of the affected companies include: MTN, GT BANK, Zenith Bank. Medplus, Swift Networks, Airtel, UBA Plc and Marcopolo, among others. They have been providing vital 24-hour services within easy reach of residents of the highbrow estate. Some of the residents said that the travails of the businesses started when officials of HORA, in a commando-like style, took over management of the estate from 1004 Estates Ltd in April 2016. “They started demanding for rents and power charges from the businesses, which have existing contracts with 1004 Estates Ltd. MTN, which built a private telecom exchange and fibre cable network service to each flat at its cost for intra-estate calls free of charge, has a 20-year concession agreement with 1004 Estates Ltd, owners of the high rise,” an expatriate resident who identified himself as Alex said. He said that in exchange for the free intra-estate calls, MTN gets power supply from the estate, stressing that the service has been crucial for communications within the estate particularly in emergency, evacuation, health and security situations. He also noted that Airtel Plc, which has a 15-year lease agreement for installation of a mast in the estate, has been refused access to the facility. “This has left residents with poor network reception for over two years.   Swift Networks, which also has telecom sites, has been severally disconnected from power, a development that led to a recent fire outbreak in its control room. Drug companies like Medplus, which runs a 24- hour Pharmacy and Mandys Supermarket are also denied access to public power supply, leading to huge losses of sensitive drugs requiring controlled temperatures and frozen foods,” he said He said that the firms have taken HORA officials to court to seek redress. “How can we cope when we cannot bank or even use ATM for withdrawals,” one of the business owners added. Attempts to speak with officials of HORA were futile. Repeated calls and SMS were also not attended to.