Senator Abu Ibrahim (APC, Katsina) is the Chairman of the Senate Committee on Police and the Chairman of Board of Trustees (BoT) of the National Committee of Buhari Support Groups (NCBSG). He is in the senate for the fourth-term and has been with President Muhammadu Buhari for over 40 years. In this interview, he speaks on the purported plan to impeach President Buhari and the politics around the move, internal security and the planned gang up against the president. Excerpts:  Daily Trust: Why did you defend President Buhari’s unilateral decision to pay for the Tucano aircraft from the US? You made reference that Obasanjo, Yar’adua and Jonathan did same but can two wrongs be right? Sen. Abu Ibrahim: First of all, it is not unilateral. The senate president himself admitted that they participated in convincing the American congress to support the deal which means that the leadership of the National Assembly is aware. That $1billion was approved at the National Council of State to be withdrawn from the Excess Crude Account. The president discussed this at the National Executive Council. So, the issue of unilateral action is not there. Most importantly, this purchase had been negotiated since (ex-President Barrack) Obama era. Buhari met it as president and he was able to get it because of the change of leadership in America, therefore it is not a unilateral decision but a decision that had been negotiated diplomatically.  DT: What the National Assembly is saying is that Buhari should have contacted it before making the payment… Sen. Ibrahim: To me, I still stand my ground that there is no need for Buhari to come to us for approval. If you look at the Medium-Term Expenditure Framework (MTEF), the provision for Excess Crude Account is there. After the price of oil is determined, the barrels of oil to be sold, then we get the total amount of money, then the sharing formula is there, certain percent for the federal government, certain percent for state and local governments, certain per cent for the Natural Resources Fund, another per cent for ecological matters and 1 percent for the FCT. It is all there. That is why I still insist that this thing is in the budget. So you can’t tell me that the $1 billion approved for security must come to the National Assembly, that it is not budgeted for. What would you say about the one per cent for ecology? Does the president come back to the National Assembly to put it in another budget? What about the 1.5 percent for the Natural Resource Fund? Does he come back and put it in the budget? They are parts of the budget.  So I would argue even today that President Buhari must not come to us for approval. And lastly, the one billion we are talking about was approved by the National Economic Council, all the governors were there. You see, 47 percent belongs to the states, we don’t approve it for them before they spend it. In fact, this $496m for the jets would have been covered by the 47 percent for the state and their local governments which were approved by their governors. Therefore, the reason why I came out clearly for this serious defence is that it has become political because under normal circumstances, how Muhammad Buhari acted showed commitment to national interest. We need these things to fight insurgency, he went for the aircraft as a transaction between government and government, no intermediary, no profit, nobody will make money out of it, so why can’t you give that person (President Buhari) little praise since he acted based on national interest and then said next time he should bring it to the National Assembly? Again,  if you go back to what happened during previous administrations on this particular account, Obasanjo removed over 17 billion and paid the Paris Club debt and he didn’t tell anybody and nobody asked him any question and even the governors were cowered down they didn’t ask him any question. If you look at the 20 billion Jonathan spent from 2010-2014, what remained was only about 4 billion. What did he do with the 16 billion? Even Yar’Adua who spent something out of it, it was later that he came to the National Assembly and said ‘I’ve taken 2 billion from the excess crude account.’ At that time, they didn’t even consult the state or National Assembly and we didn’t even know what they were doing with the money. But this time around you know exactly where the money went, it went to the American treasury directly and if you ask for a return, the American government would release the money but Nigeria’s image would be brought to disrepute diplomatically. There is shear hypocrisy in the whole thing.  DT: Hypocrisy from which quarter? Sen. Ibrahim: The PDP said during their NEC meeting that they would not defeat Buhari alone, they said they want alliances, they want to get an untainted person.  And later when this issue of $1 billion came out, they went and told their members in the National Assembly to rebuke Buhari, they asked why he released the money. How can you start talking of impeachment on this simple issue? Impeachment is done because of gross misconduct but is it a gross misconduct to work for something good for your country without pecuniary interest and without stealing a kobo? And you know we need this kind of equipment because of insecurity. I was in Kaduna recently and the Commissioner of Police spoke about Birni Gwari, Over 25 villages have been vacated because of hoodlums and armed bandits.  DT: There are allegations that there is more insecurity than it was before this administration. Are you not worried? Sen. Ibrahim: Let me tell you that internal security is extremely underfunded. Take the UK for example, they charge for family security, every family pays tax which goes to the police apart from the budget allocation. It is only in Nigeria that the police rely on the federal budget alone. In other places they have sources of revenue coming to them directly. The Nigeria Police is extremely underfunded. The Commissioner of Police in Kaduna told me that he gets 100,000 quarterly as running cost. A DPO would then get N3, 000 for their daily operations. He has a jeep that consumes N10, 000 fuel a day.  They have over N3billion  outstanding death gratuities to be paid. They lost 9,500 people last year. The president approved 6,500 for recruitment. They are undermanned and underfunded and they don’t have communication gadgets and can’t even track criminals. They are not trained and are not motivated. They have no arms. If you go to Zamfara, you would see between 50 and 100 bandits going with 20 or 30 AK47 rifles, while the DPO doesn’t have up to 30 policemen who have two or three AK47 rifles. How would he confront them? So, we have to reinvigorate and restructure the Nigeria Police. The aircraft have been bought, they can be used for internal security too because in those areas, we need to have aerial bombardment before the bandits take over the area. Therefore, the remaining $500 million from the $1billion should be expended on the police and the DSS for real internal security. I appeal to Mr. President to forget his military background and look at the police. The army is competently equipped because all our neighbours are not our antagonists, many of the nations around us will not attack us. Our real threat right now is internal security and we need to put more money there, the army has enough for now. Internal security must be taken care of seriously.  DT: What is your take on President Trump’s comments on President Buhari? Sen. Ibrahim: I was surprised because Trump is such a person you cannot predict. There must be some synergy, some likeness between the two of them. It appears he is impressed with what Buhari is doing. He commented on the fight against corruption, he is a very blunt person and is undiplomatic. If he thinks that Buhari is not good enough, he would have shown it.  He even twitted about his meeting Buhari.  DT: Do you think that it is an endorsement for Buhari to go for a second term? Sen Ibrahim: It has nothing to do with that. Buhari is coming for second term in Nigeria not in America. It is for us, but every leader wants to continue to finish his tenure because he started something. He knows that at the end of his eight years he would go. I think that when we elected Buhari, we knew that there was a possibility that he would do eight years. There was no formal agreement that he would do only four years.  DT: It was widely reported that at a time he said he wanted only one term Sen. Ibrahim: I have been with Buhari for the past 40 years, and all these political days I am with him. I have never heard him uttering this four year whatever it is. Some people are saying he should do the Mandela option, but the truth is that Mandela came for only one purpose and it was to unite South Africa. If he was not on the saddle, there would have been real killings between the blacks and the whites. That was the main reason, he didn’t speak about economic growth or anything else, he was there to unite South Africa and he did it very well. Buhari inherited a very serious economic situation. The price of oil had crashed to only $40 from $120 dollars, corruption was so devastatingly high, Boko Haram was the ruling party of Nigeria with its flags. Insecurity was so high, our public image internationally was down. So that was the situation in Nigeria but he picked the challenge and everybody knew that it wasn’t a four-year programme. It may be even a 20-year programme. And luckily you can see that Buhari has never failed to pay salaries. He was even helping states which had never been done under Obasanjo or Jonathan. They never gave states loans to pay their salaries or support their budgets, but despite the fact that the major earner of our foreign exchange which is oil was down by about almost 60-70 percent, Buhari has been supporting other tiers of government.  Again, Jonathan knew about some innovations but didn’t have the guts to implement them. Look at the Single Treasury Account (TSA) and the BVN (Bank Verification Number), he couldn’t implement them because he was surrounded by thieves who wouldn’t like it. But Buhari came and is implementing them.  DT: How far have you gone reaching out to his supporters? Sen. Ibrahim: The support groups were almost 198 which worked for him in 2015. However, in 2016, I realized that these groups were disappearing and becoming frustrated. So, I managed to tell the president that we needed to get them together, unite them and see where they could be beneficial and we started communicating.  The 198 different groups are now communicating and relating with us.  DT: Are you not worried about the purported gang up of other political parties that want to defeat Buhari next year? Sen. Ibrahim: Politics is always like that, we always face challenging situations. I still feel very confident because of the mess the PDP left. I am also confident because of the exposure of the serious corruption cases that are coming out. I think it would be absolutely difficult for the PDP as a political party to come back. As you can see they are trying to change name, and trying to merge with some others. They know that they cannot market the PDP at all and that is natural because they know as PDP, it would be very difficult to defeat Buhari but the leopard cannot change its colour. What is going on is not a surprise to me and I am not frightened.  DT: You have been to the Senate four times, are you coming back next year? Sen. Ibrahim: Personally, I feel I should retire. I have gone four times but you know how politics is. I have that feeling that after doing it four times, perhaps someone else should come out of sheer reasonableness. I wanted to go and let someone try his luck but if there is insistence, then...The world is like a stage, you do what you can and I have done my best. People think that you are here making money, social media can give you nightmares because that is where people just post anything and at my age I cannot withstand some of these things. In politics, you must pray for Allah to guide you.