A non-governmental organisation, Doyin & Suzan Foundation, has distributed food stuffs to 210 indigent women in Kogi-Kotonkarfe and Lokoja Local Government Areas of Kogi to bring succor to them during this month of Ramadan. The Chairperson, Board of Trustees (BoT) of the foundation, Mrs Adedoyin Ibikunle, told journalists while distributing the items yesterday in Lokoja, that the gesture was to designed for less privileged women drawn from across the 21 wards in the two LGAs. She recalled that the NGO had before now donated relief items and foodstuffs worth over millions to 2, 300 widows from across Yagba federal constituency, Ijumu and Kabba/Bunu Local Government Areas of the state. Ibikunle added that the foundation had also in April embarked on free medical treatment for the vulnerable people in collaboration with its US partners. “It is my humble belief that this gesture will mark a turning point in the life of our widows and bring succor to them through empowerment and various skills acquisition programmes,” she said. Ibikunle, who is a senatorial aspirant in Kogi West under APC, added that her foundation would continue to embark on initiatives that would bring succor to the people especially the less privileged women folks. She, however urged the women to give her the necessary support to ensure that she get the senatorial ticket for Kogi West during the APC primary election. "As women, let us use our power to choose a woman like us to represent us in the Senate in 2019, the women have been marginalized at the national level. I promised not to disappoint you", she said. She promised to give grant to women who are interested in farming and to start small and medium businesses to make them self-reliant, saying they should register their names for accessibility. Mrs Adisa Abubakar, Lokoja Ward A Women Leader, who spoke on behalf of the beneficiaries, commended Ibikunle for the gesture and promised their total support for her political ambition. "We are very happy seeing a woman like us coming out for the first time in the state to contest for national elective position, we are proud of you and are solidly behind you", Abubakar said.