In order to enhance the capacity of the Nigerian Armed Forces to insecurity in the country, the Services are synergizing in an exercise code named “Ex Oju Ogun-Le” to test how effective contingency plans are in tackling the menace. Personnel of the Services including the Nigerian Navy, Nigeria Air Force and the Nigerian Army are being subjected to the use of networked computers which will interface to real time situations at the Armed Forces Simulation Center, Jaji, Kaduna. Speaking at the opening ceremony of the 1st edition of the Defence Headquarters Contingency Plan Simulation Exercise for the Services organized by the Chief of Defence Staff (CDS), the CDS, General Abayomi Olonishakin, said the prevailing security situation in the country is characterized by continuous attacks, reprisal and retaliatory act between farmers and herdsmen, banditry, cattle rustling, wanton killings as well as pipeline vandalisation and oil theft. Represented by the Director, Campaign Planning, DHQ, Major General Augustine Agundu, the CDS pointed out that combating these menaces need careful planning and evaluation through continuous and qualitative training. He added, “In modern theater of war, higher standards of training are required of troops so that they are able to operate with greater restraints. Realistic training entails simulating a real situation that a commander could experience which would impact on him the knowledge to confront the fluidity of battle in crisis situation especially times that combat is required with greater restraint to avoid collateral damage.” He noted that standards can only be achieved through making training more realistic at exercising the decision making process of commanders and their troops adding that recognizing this fact, simulation exercises has been adopted globally as complimentary to field exercise. He assured that the simulation exercises will in no small measure contribute to the effective deployment of troops in real combat and urged the participants to take the simulation exercise seriously in order to achieve the desired training objectives. Earlier in his remarks, Director, Armed Forces Simulation Center (AFSC), Major General Julius Oni said the exercise is designed to test the ability and proficiency of the Services to carry out their responsibilities in any form of security threats affecting their area of responsibility. Besides, he said, the exercise would further help build the capacity of troops towards addressing current and emerging security challenges in the country. He said it is hoped that the end of the six-day simulation exercise which will end on 12th May, 2018, the commandants and staff of the three services will be exposed to the planning, preparation and execution of Military Operations Other Than War (MOOTW).