A former Green Eagles Goalkeeper, Emmanuel Okala, has hailed Super Eagles’ Technical Adviser, Coach Gernot Rohr, for the World Cup provisional list, saying it was “a good list, with promising players.” Okala, who spoke in an interview yesterday in Enugu, said the selected as dedicated players that would do the country proud. Okala said that he personally saw the provisional list as a good list “with lots of hope in it.” He noted that Rohr had taken the bull by the horn by ensuring that dedicated and strong legs were marshaled out to represent Nigeria at the World finals in Russia. “He (Rohr) is in charge and I know he always do the best for the country. “I have no reservation that the list is a good one and provisionally the best for the country for now,” he said. Okala, who is the longest goalkeeper for Nigeria, however, said that he was happy for the new entrants into the squad - Junior Lokosa and Simeon Nwankwo. He said that he had known Simeon Nwankwo for some years now, even from the time he played in Nnaka League in Orumba North Local Government Area of Anambra. “I was overwhelmed with joy when I heard that Nwankwo, made the list. “I have known him years back even in our local Nnaka League to be a great player that will go places. “Today, that forecast I made about the lad then is manifesting. He is simply a great player. “I pray he joins other great and wonderful players in the team to make Nigerians proud,’’ he added. Rohr’s 30-man provisional squad for the Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup finals was released by the Nigeria Football Federation (NFF) on Monday. It included goalkeepers - Francis Uzoho, Ikechukwu Ezenwa, Daniel Akpeyi and Dele Ajiboye. The Defenders are Leon Balogun, William Troost-Ekong, Kenneth Omeruo, Brian Idowu, Elderson Echejile, Shehu Abdulahi, Ola Aina, Tyrone Ebuehi, Stephen Eze and Chidozie Awaziem. The Midfielders include Mikel Obi (Captain), Joel Obi, Ogenyi Onazi, Mikel Agu, Etebo Oghenekaro, John Ogu, Uche Ago and Wilfred Ndidi. Attackers are Odion Ighalo, Ahmed Musa, Moses Simon, Victor Moses, Junior Lokosa (new entrant), Simeon Nwankwo (new entrant), Alex Iwobi and Kelechi Iheanacho. The Russia 2018 FIFA World Cup finals is scheduled to kick off on June 14 and end on July 15. (NAN)