Media Trust Limited (publishers of Daily Trust titles, Aminiya, Kilimanjaro, Tambari, and others) has launched a petition website (petition.dailytrust.com) to enable Nigerians advocate for actions to be taken as part of their constitutional rights on any issue or cause that bother them. The petition website is a social action platform that empowers people to initiate campaigns, mobilize supporters, and work with decision makers to drive solutions. “We are creating a platform for social change, empowering citizens to, not only demand for action, but drive solutions with decision makers,” noted Abiodun Alade, the Online Editor of Media Trust. Alade explained that petition.dailytrust.com is an online activism platform that helps citizens to go beyond posting comments on the social media about policies and actions of government, corporate organistaions and individuals in authority. “We need to take our dissatisfaction beyond the social media, public demonstration and procession. We must demand action from those in positions of authority. "Instead of complaining about that air pollution in your community, petition it; instead of murmuring about the untarred road in your area by the council boss, petition it or is there any act of injustice you want justice for? We can make Nigeria a better place when we start taking our discussions beyond the social media,” he added. He explained that there are four processes involved in submitting a petition. The user would be required to provide the title of the petition at the first stage. The user would then be asked to explain the issue and what they want to be done by the authorities (solution). The third stage is to petition recipients that is, choosing someone with authority to make the change users are looking for. The fourth stage is to pick a category that best suites what the petition stands for and upload image. “All you need to do is to make use of our user-friendly and easy-to-use portal to register your petition, ensure you get adequate support for your petition and Daily Trust will take up the campaign and ensure the concerned authorities act accordingly. "We will also be recognising ‘champions of change’ in our publications. These are people whose petitions effectively helped to make a change or influence those in authority to do what is required,” said Alade.