 Ahead of the 2019 General Elections, a First class traditional ruler in Bayelsa State and Amananaowei of Amassoma Kingdom, Maj. Graham Naingba (rtd), has raised alarm that politicians were exploiting the crisis in the community to cause fresh tensions. He warned politicians against igniting fresh crisis that could deepen the recent crisis which engulfed Amassoma, a host community to the Niger Delta University in Wilberforce Island. Naingba in a statement sent to Daily Trust, cautioned a popular Ijaw musician, against producing any music on the crisis involving the NDU and the Amassoma community. Saying the planned crisis is condemnable and reprehensible, he said any fresh crisis could negate ongoing efforts of the Bayelsa State government towards amicable resolution of the crisis. According to him, Governor Henry Seriake Dickson, had not only put adequate measures in place to address emergent issues but was also effectively resolving the crisis. “Characters with dubious intent with the backing of politicians focused on 2019 elections should desist from exploiting the crisis to cause further division in Amassoma community. The platform of music should not be exploited to inflict pain and agony on the community because the conflict is already being resolved by the various authorities. “While we are not opposed to genuine efforts geared towards peace, security and prosperity of our town, the people of Amassoma are not in support of the activities of the particular musician with the backing of politicians designed to inflame passions in the community. Politicians should leave Amassoma alone. The tendency to exploit a crisis situation to aggravate conflict cannot be the best way to show concern and love. This is unknown to the culture of our people. “The Governor and traditional authorities have not only put machinery in place to address the issue but are resolving the crisis. Nobody should do anything that will inflame passion or acts that can lead to further unrest in our community. To claim that you love Amassoma more than the indigenes is the loudest way of hypocrisy. Exploit8ing exploit a crisis to deepen conflict cannot be the best way to show concern. Amassoma is beyond any individual,” Naingba said.