Operators of some power firms who benefited from an intervention fund from the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) have repaid N19.3 billion, a report has shown. The CBN loan tagged Nigeria Electricity market Stabilisation Fund (NEMSF) was an actual N210.6bn funding to revive the ailing power sector in 2014.  A CBN report on the disbursement obtained by Daily Trust this month said out of the N210.6bn pegged for the sector, it has disbursed N158.7bn (75 per cent). From the disbursement figure, the beneficiaries have repaid N19.3bn while there is N139.3bn outstanding.  The facility whose disbursement started in 2015 was initiated to cushion the electricity market shortfall of N210bn as at December 2014.  The Daily Trust reports that the market short fall is officially about N800bn according to the Federal Ministry of Power, Works and Housing. But the private sector operators of the power firms have insisted that the shortfall has risen to over N1 trillion presently.  The NEMSF was meant to help the power firms clear the legacy debts wrapped around gas and contracts that lingered before the power sector privatisation in November 2013. The fund was also to provide liquidity to the sector by settling the debt overhang that arose during the Interim Rules Period occasioned by the revenue shortfalls during the period.  It was to institute a contract based electricity market where participants are governed by market rules and instil discipline; it was also meant to improve power supply nationwide.  NEMSF had a six months moratorium and the benefiting firms were expected to pay back the loans in 10 years at 11 per cent interest rate, some of the benefiting operators said.  In spite of these, the first quarter industry performance report of the Nigerian Electricity Regulatory Commission (NERC) has shown that the market indiscipline continued with power supply not improving while the market shortfall is over N800bn.  However, the latest CBN report showed that through the facility, the Distribution Companies (DisCos) provided N13.78bn security cover to the Nigerian Bulk Electricity Trading Plc (NBET) and the Market Operator (MO) as required under the vesting contracts/market rules to serve as guarantee for DisCos’ payment for energy charges and ancillary service charges.  The NEMSF also helped the DisCos to purchase of 704,928 meter for their customers; they also purchased and installed over 500 transformers to enhance the distribution networks.  CBN said the DisCos used part of the facility to rehabilitate over 2,000 kilometres of 11 kilovolt (KV) lines and 130km of 0.45kV lines.  While it said 56 substations were rehabilitated and constructed, over N24bn has been paid to gas suppliers to boost more gas supply for power generation. From inception of the fund, the report said over 1,000 megawatts (MW) of generation capacity at the Generation Companies (GenCos) has been recovered.  Even with this impact, CBN is yet to disburse 25 per cent of the fund, about N51bn citing the inability of Kaduna and Yola DisCos to fully sign-on to the Facility. “Efforts to sign on these Discos are already been intensified as both Discos have made remarkable progress in this regard,” the report noted.