The Registrar/Chief Executive of the Joint Admissions and Matriculation Board (JAMB), Prof Is-haq Oloyede, has called for religious harmony and understanding in the country saying Muslims, Christians and other religious adherents should tolerate one another in order to move the nation forward. Oloyede, who is also the Secretary-General of the Nigerian Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs (NSCIA), made the plea in Abuja on Thursday at the 12th Ramadan lecture/Iftar organized by the Abuja chapter of the Obafemi Awolowo University Muslim Graduates Association (UNIFEMGA), title, “Ramadan: Prescription for Change” and delivered by Ustaz Abdulfattah Adeyemi. While condemning the senseless killings in the country, Oloyede urged Nigerians irrespective of their faith and religious backgrounds to promote Nigeria’s unity and religious tolerance. He however criticized those blaming President Muhammadu Buhari for the killings, adding that the President is doing all within his power to end the killings. He also commended the Catholic faithfuls for a peaceful protest staged in Abuja and across the country devoid of any sentiments and called on other religious groups to emulate them. “Islam promotes peaceful co-existence among all faiths and frowns at compulsion in religion. Islam respects other religion and that is why a Muslim man can marry a Christian lady but a Muslim lady can refuse a Christian man’s hand in marriage out of the respect she has for his faith and not to rock the marital life. Islam is the most humane religion which accommodates all. Islam forbids compulsion in religion as stated in the glorious Quran,” he said. The guest lecturer, Ustaz Adeyemi, said a Muslim needs spiritually guidance to draw closer to Allah especially in the month of Ramadan. He said a total change entails that one must resist a lot of negativity to exist and that resilience steadfastness and adaptability are the key factors to a positive change. In his welcome address, the UNIFEMGA chairman, Alhaji Abdul Ghaniyy Oladokun, said the association was establish to promote Islamic brotherhood through scholarship, dawah and empowerment of the Alma matter and beyond. He said the association since inception 12 years ago has disbursed a total of N31, 201,000 as scholarship awards and indigent supports for a total of 556 students. He attributed the success of the scholarship scheme to consistent support from established and new donors.