Elections in two out of the 23 local governments of Kaduna State were cancelled yesterday due to security concerns. Results of the elections in remaining 21 local governments are however being expected. Heavy down pour in five local governments in the Southern part of the state prevented many from coming out to vote. Our correspondents report that the rains started very early in the morning and continued till late in the day in local governments like Sanga, Jemaa, Zangon Kataf, Kaura and Jaba. It was gathered that elections in Jaba and Kaura local governments ran into hitches when in the process of distribution, hoodlums hijacked the materials and left with them. A witness said the hoodlums attacked the State Independent Electoral Commission (SIECOM) offices making both the officials and others to run for their lives. The officials of the electoral commission were said to have discontinued with the process in the 2 LGs. In Jaba Local Government Area, some of the residents were said to have waited on the queue for a long time with the hope of continuing with the process even when it was halted by officials of the electoral commission. Kaduna State Governor, Malam Nasir El-Rufai, confirmed the development, saying a new date has to be fixed for elections in the two councils. The governor said the electoral commission considers it best to postpone election in the two LGs. “But we are hoping that before the end of the day results will start coming out from other local government.  And we are at peace with the process so far,” he added. El-Rufai said he did not care whether his party, the All Progressives Congress wins or loses at the local government election as long as it was free and fair. Speaking shortly after casting his vote at the Ungwan Sarkin polling station, Governor El Rufai said although there were initial hiccups with the electronic voting machine, the problems were resolved. Earlier, our correspondents gathered that materials arrived late at many polling stations while voting machines could not pick up in some. But the turn out in many places was high as people waited to cast their votes. Checks conducted by our correspondents showed that the early morning downpour which began around 7 am stalled election in Jema’a, Sanga, Kaura, Zangon Kataf and Jaba local government areas of the state. In an interview with Haliru Dangana, who represents Sanga State Constituency in Gwantu, he said but for the rainfall, arrangements were concluded by members of his constituents to come out en mass to exercise their franchise. Dangana said he was comfortable with the security arrangements, adding that the people of the area have been sensitised to avoid tendencies capable of breaching public peace. The Administrator of Sanga Local Government, Abdulmuminin Yakubu Ashafa, said though the exercise commenced before the rain, it was a natural cause that wouldn’t stall the process. Further checks revealed that the cancellation in Kaura followed allegations of compromise. It was gathered that one of the candidates and his supporters stormed the SIECOM Office in Kaura and carted away some generating set. As a result of the development, Mr Sani Mohammed, the Electoral Officer in Kaura announced the indefinite suspension of the process. When contacted, Mr Zitung Basahuwa Agog, Administrator of Kaura Local Government who confirmed the development said he was yet to get details of what led to the cancellation.