The Chief of Army Staff, Lt. General Tukur Yusuf Buratai on Wednesday warned officers and men of the Nigerian Army not to resort to social media to air their grievance, or discuss operational strategies which could be injurious to the country’s national security. Buratai who was represented by the Chief of Policy and Plans, Major General Rasheed Yusuf warned that resorting to the social media is highly prohibited by the military but added that the army has well established channels to address complains. The Chief of Army Staff was speaking during an Officers Office Management and Documents Security Workshop at the Command Officers Mess in Abuja. Buratai added that to check the excesses of some officers, a directorate have already been initiated to focus solely on the management of the social media in the service. He said, “the social media has brought out additional challenges to information security which are being used by misguided personnel contrary to our service rules. “The Nigerian Army has an extant policy on the use of social media which prohibits among others, the use of social media to discuss or disclose service matters. “It is indeed unfortunate and unprofessional for service personnel to resort to social media to disclose classified information or express grievances when the Army has well established channels for addressing complain”. He explained that the workshop is meant to equip officers on the importance of securing service documents, in a manner that will not jeopardize any operations and administration. “The ultimate objective of the forum is to build your capacity to effectively support my vision which is to have a professional responsive Nigerian Army in the discharge of its constitutional role”. Buratai, who called on officers to take the workshop seriously, added that some service documents are highly classified to the extent that their disclosure could be injurious to our national security and so officers need to be updated on how to preserve the sanctity of service documents and the threats in these areas. Earlier, the Chief of Administration, Major General Idris Alkali said that it was unprofessional for any officer or soldier to disclose any official information without authorization. He noted that security of documents is one of the cardinal requirements for effective operations and administration in the military, especially as the Nigerian Army is involved in numerous operations both within the country and globally. He said that the workshop is meant for officers involved in the generating, drafting and releasing of documents that could jeopardize security. He said, “It is against this background that the workshop is being organized to improve the professional competence of Nigerian Army officers in maintaining the sanctity of service document.” 