The deputy Governors of Sokoto and Zamfara states have led some officials of their various states in a meeting with the National Boundary Commission aimed at resolving some boundary issues involving the two states. The meeting was held Thursday at the Dankani Guest Inn  in Sokoto and was attended by leaders of some of the affected communities.  The two states share common borders at Gummi/Kebbi, Bakura/Rabah and Shinkafi/Isa respectively.  Addressing the meeting, the deputy Governor of Sokoto state and chairman of the state boundary committee, Alhaji Ahmed Aliyu said the meeting was very crucial in view of the importance of land to human survival.  Aliyu affirmed the two state as one stressing  that the minor dispute needed to be resolved amicably and justly.  In doing that,  he advised that the existing relationship between their communities should not be tempered with.  "We are one. We share a lot in common and if not for the creation of state we would have remained one society," he said  He urged the affected communities to continue living in peace with one another, adding that the two states would ensure their welfare.  In his remarks, the deputy Governor of Zamfara state who also doubled as the chairman of the state Boundary Committee, Malam Ibrahim Wakkala maintained that the problem of insecurity facing the border states called for effective intelligent information sharing to curtail the ugly situation.  "It is therefore in our common interest that we all need to put hand on deck for the realization of our common objectives."  He added " It is with this at the back of our mind that, Zamfara state government would never relent in  its efforts in contributing its quota in making our interstate borders peaceful."  Wakkala  said that the cordial relationship between the two state would continue to exist and further cemented with all sincerity of purpose.  He expressed belief that the the forum would find panacea to the problems.  The two public officers however commended the National Boundary Commission in ensuring that interstate boundaries were properly delineated and demarcated.  In his welcoming address, the Director General of the agency, Muhammad Ahmad said that meeting was not to discuss boundary dispute but to ensure the two states were proper delineated and demarcated.  He thanked the governments of the two states for their cooperation and assured them that justice would be done to all of them.