The Vice President, Prof Yemi Osinbajo has described the late General Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Dr Musa Asake as a God’s General. The late Dr. Asake died May 11 in Abuja after a brief illness at the age of 66. The Vice President who visited the family in Gwarinpa at the weekend prayed for their wellbeing. Osinbajo in his tribute in the condolence register quoted from the Scripture, “Precious in His sight is the death of the saint. The coming home of a general in His Army must be even more precious. We bless God for a life spent in the service of His church and of our faith. We believe God that his legacy will endure, even as we know that this dear man of God now lives eternally with our Lord and Saviour. Hallelujah”. The Vice President who was accompanied by the Villa Chaplin, Pastor Seyi Malomo was received by the Assistant General Secretary (AGS), Barr Joseph Daramola. The AGS and the widow appreciated the Vice President for finding time despite his tight schedule to identify with the family in a time like this. Meanwhile, the President of CAN, Dr. Samson Olasupo Ayokunle, has commiserated with the Catholic Secretariat of Nigeria (CSN) as it conducts mass burial for the two priests and parishioners killed by the armed herdsmen in Benue State recently. He describes the present moment in Nigeria as a trying time for the church, adding, “We also urge all Christians to identify with the Catholic Church in its nationwide peaceful protest against senseless killings in Nigeria. A statement by the CAN’s President Spokesman, Pastor Adebayo Oladeji, expressed dismay that killing of innocent is assuming global embarrassment with mass burial being carried out at all times even when Nigeria is not in a state of war. “President Muhammadu Buhari must not forget his 2015 campaign promises including fighting insecurity and keeping Nigeria united and upon which Nigerians overwhelmingly voted for him. “Buhari’s government should not fold arms and watch misguided Nigerians, mostly Boko Haram and herdsmen promote killing as a past-time in the name of politics and ethnics while solution appears very elusive,” he said.