Dangote Industries Limited (DIL) has announced new appointments in order to strengthen the group’s executive management team and sustain its strategic business growth trajectory as Africa’s foremost indigenous conglomerate, In the new organizational rejig, Olakunle Alake the erstwhile Chief Operating Officer (COO) is now the Group Managing Director and Dr. Adenike Fajemirokun, the Group Chief Risk Officer has been elevated to the office of Group Executive Director, President’s Office, where she will take on new roles in addition to her schedule as the risk officer. The management also announced the appointment of Austine Ometoruwa as Group Executive Director, Corporate Finance and Treasury. Earlier, the Board of Dangote Cement Plc, global, announced the appointment of Cherie Blair and Mick Davies as independent non-executive directors. According to the Group President/Chief Executive, Aliko Dangote, the new appointments are to strengthen the group’s executive management team and to consolidate on its strategic business growth trajectory. Alake has been the Chief Operating Officer of Dangote Industries Limited since 2007. He serves on the board of Dangote   Sugar   Refinery   Plc, NASCON Allied Industries Plc, Dangote Cement Plc and Dangote Flour Mills Plc.  Mr. Alake’s experience   spans 34   years   covering banking, management consultancy and manufacturing industries. He   joined Dangote Group in July 1997 and served as its Financial Controller and Head of  Strategic Services till 2001 when he was appointed to the board of Dangote Industries Limited as Executive Director/Group Strategist. He started his working career at PricewaterhouseCoopers, a   firm  of Chartered  Accountants in September 1984 and left in 1990 to join Liberty Merchant Bank Limited as Financial Controller for three years. Between August 1993 and July 1997, Mr. Alake served as the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of Liberty Merchant Securities Limited and was part of the team that provided consultancy services for the smooth take-over of the International Trust Bank Plc, by Dangote Group in August 1996. A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Nigeria, Mr. Alake holds a Bachelor’s degree in Civil Engineering from Obafemi Awolowo University, Ile-Ife in 1983. Dr. Fajemirokun, a consummate risk management and insurance specialist, has over 18 years diverse experience in developing and implementing risk management strategies in financial, engineering, manufacturing and other industries. Adenike started her career with Ove Arup and Partners as a Fire Engineer where she was responsible for carrying out qualitative and quantitative risk assessment of various assets and developing risk assessment frameworks for quantifying identified risks.