The Lagos State Governor, Mr Akinwunmi Ambode, yesterday commissioned eight additional computerized vehicle inspection centres spread across the state with a disclosure that out of 93,768 vehicles the relevant government agency inspected between April and December 2017, 39,798 failed the test. However, 29, 977 of the vehicles that failed, he added, had done a retest and passed. Ambode explained that his administration was committed to ensuring the safety of lives in Lagos State with the deployment of state-of-the-art vehicle inspection facilities to check the road-worthiness of vehicles. The eight centres, located at Oko-Oba, Ayobo-Iyana-Ipaja; Oko-Afo, Badagry, PWD, Gbagada, Agric-Isawo and Epe, added to the two centres -Ojodu and Odogunyan in Ikorodu, that the governor had earlier commissioned in April 2017. With the centres in place, the government plans to completely eradicate physical inspection of vehicles, while the issuance of road-worthiness certificate would be hinged on the inspection of vehicles at any of the testing centres. Ambode, who was represented at the commissioning by the Commissioner for Transportation, Mr Ladi Lawanson, said before the end of the year, 10 more centres would be opened with a view to meeting the United Nations Decade of Action on safe road users and safe vehicles. The governor said his administration planned to replicate the centres in all the 20 local governments and 37 local council development areas in the state. He said, “We’ve taken this route to ensure that what happened between 2013 and 2016, when over 416 lives were lost and 2,498 were injured due to road crashes on our roads as a result of human errors, does not continue. Research has proven human errors to be responsible for 90 per cent of accidents, while mechanical and environmental factors account for only 10 per cent.” The Managing Director of the Lagos State Computerized Vehicle Inspection Service (LACVIS), Prince Segun Obayendo, disclosed that each of the centres had the capacity to inspect 80 vehicles per day.