 The Muslim Rights Concern (MURIC) has expressed shock over the death of the National Secretary of the Christian Association of Nigeria (CAN), Rev. Musa Asake, who died on Friday after a brief illness. MURIC in a statement by its Director, Prof. Ishaq Akintola commiserated with CAN President, Dr. Samson Ayokunle, members of his executive team as well as the entire body of Christ in Nigeria. “We also condole with the nuclear and extended family of the deceased. We share the grief of his immediate friends and admirers. We are with his mourners in spirit at this trying period. Our hearts are heavy with sadness. “In particular, our hearts go to his widow, Mrs. Asake, the biological and spiritual children he left behind, his brothers and sisters. We pray that Almighty Allah will give them all the strength to bear this great loss”. The organization described late Rev. Asake as a great man who was passionate about discipline and hardwork, urging Christian youths to emulate him. “He worked tirelessly for a better and more secure Nigeria. He was deeply committed to what he believed in and he left behind a legacy of activism, industry and patriotism. His sudden demise has left a yawning gap which will be difficult to fill”, he said. The statement added, “We remind Nigerians that death is a necessary end and nobody knows when it will be his or her turn. But what matters is what we leave behind. Let us therefore seek a better and more secure life for our country, our children and generations yet unborn”. MURIC further charged religious leaders to learn from the lessons which the late Rev. Musa Asake left behind. “These include forging love between Christians, Muslims and traditionalists in Nigeria. Our children must not grow up to hate one another. Our children must not grow into a world of rancor and animosity. “Despite our differences, Musa Asake was an epitome of love, goodwill, humility, forgiveness and tolerance. We disagreed on matters of faith but we always agreed on issues affecting our dear country, Nigeria and humanity,” MURIC stated.