At least 24 civil society groups have called for a halt to recurring ultimatums for Amnesty International Nigeria to vacate the country. They have called for “adequate protection” of operatives and facilities of Amnesty currently under “vicious and persistent threats.” All 24 groups, in a statement issued in Abuja, condemned “recurrent breach of peace, brazen lack of patriotism, and absolute disregard for fundamental democratic values and principles of good governance by a malicious group that has persisted in threatening and issuing unjustified ultimatums to Amnesty International Nigeria.” “We, in strong terms, denounce the unjustifiable recurring threats against the staff and facilities of Amnesty International Nigeria, and reiterate that no responsible individual, group or government will disparage the protection of the rights of vulnerable individuals or groups,” they said. They said Amnesty deserved sincere support and solidarity to complement the work of civil society groups to enhance democratic values in the country. “We are disturbed but not surprised at such clearly sponsored malicious moves by some individuals, hands-gloved by an undemocratic group, to divert the attention of Amnesty International Nigeria, and other credible civil society groups from their progressive struggles to dig deep and uproot the persistent human rights abuses and violations in the country,” the statement said. “Ironically, the on-going attack on Amnesty International Nigeria is a glaring endorsement of its stellar strides in the protection of human rights, a pointer that their impactful work must be supported and sustained by all well-meaning Nigerians to enhance the rule of law, social equity, and justice.” The 24 groups include: 1.      Civil Society Legislative Advocacy Centre (CISLAC) 2.      Partners for Electoral Reforms (PER) 3.      State of the Union (SOTU) 4.      Say No Campaign 5.      Centre for Democracy and Development (CDD) 6.      Centre for Information Technology and Development (CITAD) 7.      Zero Corruption Coalition (ZCC) 8.      Human and Environmental Development Agenda (HEDA) 9.      Civil Society Network Against Agenda (CSNAC) 10.  Accountability Mechanism for Maternal New Born and Child health in Nigeria (AMHiN) 11.  Resource Centre for Human Rights and Civic Education (CHRICED) 12.  Youth Initiative for Advocacy Growth and Advancement (YIAGA) 13.  Protest to Power 14.  Centre for Democratic Research and Training (CRDDERT) 15.  Organisations of Trade Unions of West Africa 16.  National Procurement Watch Platform (NPWP) 17.  African Centre for Media and Information Literacy (AFRICMIL) 18.  Borno Coalition for Democracy and Progress (BOCODEP 19.  ​Global Rights 20.  Enough is Enough 21.  Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC}​ 22.  Social Action 23.  Institute of Human Rights and Humanitarian Law 24. Girl Child Africa 