The eight-year tenure of Comrade Adams Oshiomhole as governor of Edo State was certainly an eventful one, positively or negatively, depending on the side of the political divide one pitches one’s tent. There is no doubt that the former governor changed the face of politics in the state while his tenure lasted. Oshiomhole got to the Edo Government House with the support of all the major opposition political parties then. In addition to his exploits as former president of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC), the political class in Edo ganged up against former President Olusegun Obasanjo. Obasanjo had imposed his in-law, Professor Oseheimen Osunbor on the party in power at that time, the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). This did not go down well with members of the party in the state, who preferred another candidate. Oshiomhole was advised to go to the election tribunal to reclaim his mandate. He did this with the support of the Action Congress of Nigeria (ACN). And he won the case. Unfortunately, the Oshiomhole camp had former PDP members who were formerly in the House of Representatives but lost their bid for re-election. They include the current deputy governor of the state, Dr Pius Odubu; the commissioner for agriculture, Tunde Lakoju, and that of information, Abdul Oroh. To them, it was a payback time for their loss at PDP primary elections. After the Akoko-Edo rerun election, Anthony Anenih, the then strongman of Edo politics, whom Oshiomhole respected and offered the opportunity to choose most of his appointees, fell out with the governor. Subsequently, he realised that he had to tackle Oshiomhole headlong. So the battle line was drawn. Anenih fired the first salvo at Ewohimi, a village in Edo Central when a former ACN governorship aspirant, Clement Imasualo, declared for the PDP. During that event, Anenih lambasted the Oshiomhole-led government over what he called his failure to meet the yearnings of the people. He said Oshiomhole did not know the difference between a governor and a labour leader. He said governance was not about making fabulous speeches and getting applause from students. Also, during a rally the PDP organised in Benin, the Edo State capital, Chief Anenih said the ACN must be dislodged. Consequently, Oshiomhole decided to fight back. An opportunity came for him when six chairmen of PDP-controlled local government areas declared for the ACN.  Those who declared included Crosby Eribo, chairman of Ego Local Government Area: Itohan Osahor, chairman of Ikpoba Okha Local Government: Stanley Odidi, chairman of Etsako East Local Government, and Agabajumoo Omorogiya, chairman of Oredo Local Government. While receiving them into the ACN, Governor Oshiomhole said it was time to retire the godfather. He said any father who did not realise that his children would one day grow up was not fit to be called a father. He vowed to retire Anenih from politics. Since then, there have been bitterness and acrimony between the two politicians and their supporters. While the state commissioner for information, Abdul Oroh, said the PDP was dead in Edo State, the PDP, on the other hand, through its chairman, Dan Orbih, said the party was waxing stronger to win the next governorship election in the state come 2012. Going by the history of elections in Edo State, observers fear that the current face-off would have dangerous consequences if allowed to degenerate. While in office as governor, Oshiomhole tried as much as possible to carry traditional rulers along. Although he embarked on some developmental projects, he also took a number of controversial decisions. Political observers say that the former governor, who boasted to end the era of godfatherism in the state, has himself become a godfather. It is widely believed that he chose who succeeded him as governor.  It is said that Governor Godwin Obaseki still sees him as a leader. In fact, he is the current leader of the All Progressives Congress (APC) in Edo State. As governor, Oshiomhole was reputed to have fought members of the state House of Assembly, the Federal Government, the PDP, and workers. He saw every protest or criticism as being sponsored by the PDP.