The Sultan of Sokoto, Muhammadu Sa’ad Abubakar has urged Christian leaders to think twice before making comments that could make terrorists win their war against the Nigerian state. He made the plea while hosting heads of security agencies, religious leaders and journalists to a dinner to break the Ramadan fast at his palace on Monday. The monarch was reacting to the publication credited to some Christian leaders that “if Leah Sharibu dies in the hand of Boko Haram, there will be a religious war in the country.” The Sultan asked: “How could that be. Did the Muslims connive with Boko Haram to abduct the girls and release others? No.” “For them to now make that comment that if she dies in the hand of Boko Haram there will be a religious war is very unfair. How could you start attacking Muslims because this innocent girl happened to be a victim of murderous terrorists? It means they (Boko Haram) are winning the war because that is what they want,” he said. He added: “We are all praying for her safe return and for the safety of every Nigerian irrespective of his or her religion.” According to him, more Muslims were killed by Boko Haram than Christians, noting that even the former President Goodluck Jonathan testified to this. Sultan further tasked the media to save this country and avoid reports inimical to the peace and unity of the nation. He cited a picture of Fulani herdsmen holding G4 rifle being used by some media houses to portray attacks on Nigerians as uncalled for because the picture, according to him, was that of herders in the Central Africa Republic which was in existence for over 20 years. “There is no G4 rifle because it had been wiped away for long. That picture used particularly by the Channel TV was that of herders in Central Africa who were being terrorised by rustlers because cattle rustling started in their country long before coming to Nigeria,” he added. He threatened to denounce his fellowship of the Nigeria Union of Journalists (NUJ) in protest against misleading and unverified stories aired or published by their members. The President General of the Supreme Council for Islamic Affairs, however, said the crises between Fulani herders and farmers were purely economic but being hijacked by criminal elements. He reiterated that those killing innocent people, especially in the Middle Belt, were criminals who should be arrested and punished. “But don’t arrest or kill innocent Fulani men just like what had happened in Benue State when innocent Fulanis who were on transit were stopped and killed by some residents of the state,” he said. The Sultan expressed fear that the killings could continue because some politicians would want to use it to have an edge over their political opponents. He called on Nigerians to expose criminals in their midst, even if they are their fathers.