Television technology has come a long way, transforming not just the way we consume our entertainment, but also the formats in which media is broadcasted or streamed. Today, we can imagine - and expect - TVs to do a lot more than just display our favourite media. The switch from LCD to LED transformed TV design, allowing for lighter, thinner and easily wall-mountable frames, housing even more sophisticated display tech. The picture quality also dramatically improved with new contrast ratios rendering more vivid colours, deeper blacks and crisper whites. But they were still more functional than aesthetic. As Internet Service Providers (ISPs) upgraded their infrastructures to accommodate the growth in streaming services, TV manufacturers also upgraded their TVs’ ability to tap into different types of content. In the future, TVs with built in Artificial Intelligence (AI) will be able to learn usage patterns and automatically switch modes based on user preference, and even take instructions from multiple users as TVs become increasingly connected to digital home assistant systems. LG’s pioneering efforts in the design and manufacturing of OLED TVs has culminated in complete dominance of the OLED market, leaving LG at the very pinnacle of innovation in display technology, redefining the TV viewing experience, and its place in your home. With continued investment in R&D and innovation, LG has made OLED technology affordable and accessible, allowing more people to enjoy a better-quality television experience than before. No TV is a greater testament to this than last year’s award-winning LG SIGNATURE W7 - also known as WALLPAPER. LG OLED TVs are considered by industry experts to offer the most advanced display technology. As each pixel on the display can be individually switched on and off, OLED offers enhanced picture quality without image degradation. This results in the highest quality image rendering with the purest blacks. With its myriad advantages, OLED panels have become the most desired display technology today and LG is leading the charge in making this technology even more ubiquitous and accessible. With the new LG SIGNATURE W8, set to make its debut this year, all this and more will be possible. With support for both Dolby Vision™ and Dolby Atmos®, LG OLED TV is the first of its kind to offer a premium cinema experience in the comfort of your home. It also features LG’s Active HDR technology, which optimises HDR picture quality scene-by-scene, rendering brighter scenes and greater shadow detail for a life-like viewing experience.