The women’s wing of the National Association of Nigerian Traders (NANTS) has urged the Federal Government to initiate special scheme solely for women entrepreneurs especially women farmers and artisans in the grassroots as part of measure to engender rapid national development. The National Woman Leader of the NANTS, Mrs. Ruth Agbo, made the call in Abuja on Friday at the special convention of the association and FCT Chapter’s election/inauguration. According to her, the women wing aims to bring together women traders beyond buying and selling to a vehicle of human rights, social justice, sustainable development and poverty reduction and this can be achieved with direct government intervention through specialize schemes. “At the grassroots, we see women traders, some grey-haired, taking the risks of travelling by trailers, pick up vans and trucks, journeying from one end of the country to another to satisfy the needs of every Nigerians in trade and agriculture,” Agbo said. While emphasizing the need for urgency in government matching words with actions on women empowerment especially in agriculture and entrepreneurship, she said that that the non-empowerment of Nigerian women despite constituting over half of the population with the larger percentage in rural farming and trading, is a sad narrative for Nigeria. The event, which was organised in partnership with OXFAM in Nigeria, also witnessed sensitization on the need for women to participate actively in the nation’s democracy. Mrs. Agbo said that economic advancement and prosperity cannot be discharged from politics which shapes economic policy formulation and implementation. She therefore urged the women traders, farmers and artisans to obtain their Permanent Voters Card (PVC) and use their numerical strengths to influence electoral processes that would ensure their full participation in governance and ensure economic prosperity. She said, “We want to review our ‘WOMANIFESTO’ in the electoral process to better our social and economic wellbeing.”