The national library in Kaduna state has commenced an outreach to pregnant women in hospitals and maternity homes, educating them on the importance of reading to their unborn babies.  Speaking at the readership promotion campaign in Kaduna, the national librarian and chief executive officer, Professor Lenrie O. Aina said that as part of the reading campaign, books will be distributed to expectant mothers to read to their unborn babies.  The objective of the campaign he said is to promote reading beyond sheer utilization and examination purposes; encouraging lifelong reading from womb to grave and sustaining the creation of model reading clubs at both primary and secondary school levels among others.  Professor Lenrie stressed that to sustain a lifelong reading culture, there is need to develop reading interest right from childhood. “The national library is strengthened to pursue this line of action by taking a clue from a renowned writer and child psychologist, M. M. Sabah Karini in one of her works titled: ‘How does reading during pregnancy increase baby’s intelligence?”  “The book talks about benefits of mothers reading to their unborn children and it makes us to know that reading to the unborn child provides auditory stimulation for the baby’s growing brain and can acclimate children to the sound of their parent’s voices; improve the baby’s cognitive intelligence with a variety of stimuli as well as increases the baby’s intelligence among others,” he explained. He further stated that children who disregard reading hardly think. “Non-readers don’t think; they also hardly take time to examine their challenges albeit solve them. Non-readers hardly critique, they swallow whatever they are told without questioning. A reader is a very critical and highly creative person. Critical and creative thinking generates the love for extensive reading as such love can propel the individual to continually search for information to connect previous experiences with current ones.”  To broaden the campaign strategy, he mentioned that the library is engaging the forum of National Youth Corps members to establish reading clubs in their orientation camps and places of primary assignment across the country.  While he described the theme of the campaign ‘Sustaining lifelong reading for positive change’ as apt; he urged parents to help their children create time for reading and also serve as role model to them where reading is concerned.  Also, Professor Zakari Mohammed of the department of library and information science at Ahmadu Bello University (ABU), Zaria noted that it is worth-while exercise to start reading at the early scholastic stages of the young and youth in school and out of school systems so that they easily and effectively embrace the lifelong change train.  He further mentioned strategies to be employed to promote and sustain reading habit for positive change particularly among adults to include establishment of reading circles, reading relay among families, organizing ICT literacy programmes and promotion and support for library excursions among others.