Tears flowed freely on Thursday in the Oyo State House of Assembly as the governor, lawmakers, friends and colleagues paid their last respects to the late Speaker, Mr Michael Adeyemo. The News Agency of Nigeria (NAN) reports that Adeyemo, who represented Ibarapa East State Constituency on the All Progressives Congress platform, died suddenly of heart attack on Friday, aged 47. At the special sitting held in honour of Adeyemo, Gov. Abiola Ajimobi said that Adeyemo’s death was unexpected, adding that it had left a gaping wound that would take time to heal. ALSO READ:Adeyemo was a great democrat – Speakers Ajimobi, who spoke amid tears, said that the late speaker was a true patriot who was passionate about the progress of the state. According to him, the speaker’s demise is a great loss to the state, the current administration and the APC. The Nigerian Conference of Speakers described their colleague’s death as a calamity and a great loss not only to Oyo State but also to the country as a whole. The Speaker, Enugu State House of Assembly, Mr Edward Ubosi, described the deceased as a bridge builder who brought about the unification of the South-East states. Ubosi said that Adeyemo was a defender of the defenceless. He said that Adeyemo’s demise had strengthened the resolve of all speakers to work in harmony for the progress and prosperity of their respective states as a mark of honour for the deceased’s efforts. The Deputy Speaker, Oyo State Assembly, Mr Musa Abdulwasi, described the late speaker as a dedicated lawmaker who contributed meaningfully to the emergence and passage of quality bills of paramount public interest. Abdulwasi described Adeyemo as a true patriot who placed the progress of the state above party interests and politicking. “In the time that I have known him, we have come to form a great bond beyond mere comradeship and we had only just began our political journey together. “His sudden death has cut that dream short and it has triggered many questions that are left unanswered. “He was a fine legal practitioner who became a patriotic lawmaker; he was God fearing and a responsible son, husband and father,” he said. Mr Solomon Ajanaku (APC/Ibadan South-West II) said that the late Adeyemo was a gentle, noble and astute politician who was never found wanting in his responsibilities as Speaker. Ajanaku, the Chairman, House Parliamentary Caucus, said that the late speaker was a strong believer in the will of God. Mr Gbenga Oyekola (Atiba/LP) said that Adeyemo was a man of integrity and a highly refined lawmaker who rose above party differences. The representative of the APC Party, Mr Mojeed Olaoya, said that the deceased was a consummate and hardworking lawmaker whose memories would remain evergreen to all. NAN reports that the lawmakers filed past the casket of the late speaker when the valedictory sitting in honour of Adeyemo was adjourned. The Speakers of Lagos, Ekiti, Ebonyi, Osun, Adamawa, Akwa Ibom, Niger, Delta, Kwara, Enugu, Ondo and Ogun states as well as members of the state assembly attended the tributes session. Also in attendance were Mr Adeyemo Alao-Akala, a former Governor of Oyo State, the Chief Judge of Oyo State, Justice Abimbola Munta, Mr Niyi Akintola, SAN and representives of lawmakers in the Seventh Assembly. Meanwhile, activities for the burial of the politician continue at his hometown, Lanlate in Ibarapa Area of Oyo State.(NAN)