Abuja, the centre of unity and Federal Capital territory (FCT), is set to witness one of its grandest moments this year, as top polo teams from across the country arrive for the ninth edition of the Unity Polo Tournament. The event is billed to gallop off with fanfare from May 8-13 at the foremost Guards Polo Ground that has been the centre of activities ahead of the event. Tournament Manager, Bem Garba is confident of the usual corporate and public organizations’ support for the fiesta that is stage to celebrate the return of democracy in Nigeria. “We enjoy a strong relationship with both the corporate and public community, Nigerian polo patrons, and we are delighted to bring these partnerships together for this historic event,” he said. “Abuja and Guards Polo Club are magnificent destination and I’m certain that polo buffs will enjoy their stay here, while the tournament will help showcase the best of Nigerian polo to a global audience.” Though, he is keeping the list of his sponsors close to heart, Polo Royals reliably gathered that corporate giants like Income Elektrix, Almat Group, First Bank Plc, MTN Nigeria, Sheraton Hotels, and Aiteo Oil & Gas are on the card. Guards Polo Club Chairman, Ambassador Sani Bala who thanked all participating teams, players and dignitaries for accepting being part of the fiesta, stated that unity tournament had impacted positively on the tourism drive of Abuja and Nigeria generally. “We are all aware that sports can help in bridging the cultural, ethnic, religion and political divides, promote tolerance, peace; and advocates healthy life style,” the diplomat and a legendary polo aficionado pointed out. According to the Tournament Committee, a strong field of top contenders is lining up for the event, as the country celebrate yet another year of democratic consolidation. Expectedly, Maurice Ekpenyong and his Almat Group team would lead the charge as they defend the Unity Polo title they won last year. Former champions in high and medium goals class like Keffi Ponys, Rubicon, Dogonyaro Farm, Abuja Aviva and last year’s finalist, Abuja Trade Mark are warming up for the rumble as well. Jamilu Mohammed and Bello Buba warned that Unity Polo’2018 would be a close contest, going by the intense build up by participating teams, especially the ambitious new comers who would be vying for their first ever Unity polo titles. Both high-goalers with decades of high profile polo experiences in their kitty, believe that campaigns for the President Cup, the Legislative Shield and the Guards Brigade Trophy, will go all the way to the wires. Overall, 2018 Unity polo extravaganza will be fun and a worthy platform to celebrate our much cherished democracy, they both chorus on phone from Zaria, venue of the just concluded Zazzau polo festival.