As the row between the human rights watch, Amnesty International (AI) and the Nigerian Army deepens, an anti-terrorism group under the aegis of the Coalition Against Terrorism and Extremism (CATE) has accused the AI of leading psychological war on terror against the people of Nigeria. It insists that AI has become a threat to Nigeria’s sovereignty. Its National Co-ordinator, Gabriel Onoja, said in a statement that the report by the AI about cases of rape allegedly carried out by men of the armed forces at the camps of Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) was cooked to embarrass the military. He wondered how the military which it said has sacrificed so much to ensure normalcy returns to Nigeria's northeast will now be subjected to such reports. He said, "This allegation against the Nigerian military is unfortunate because the military as an institution is one that prides itself in the strict discipline and character moulding of its men from the day they enlist to when they leave. “We have absolute confidence in the conduct of our military particularly those deployed on special operations and find it strange to come to terms with the current realities that Amnesty International has become another Army Against our troops. "It is public knowledge that no institution is responsive to reports of bad behaviour, misconduct and other forms of indiscipline like the military. “That is why within any military setting, you will  find the full compliment for ensuring compliance with rules and regulations  and for punishing acts of wrong doing like the appointment of provosts, RSMs , the building of  guard rooms and the setting aside of tasking drills for punishment to erring men and officers." He expressed concern that the AI allegations against the country's military is coming at a time when the terrorists have been virtually defeated. According to him, Amnesty International may have done some good works in the past and elsewhere in the world, but its current intervention in Nigeria since the war against insurgency intensified leaves much to be desired. "Who does Amnesty International protect? Who pays Amnesty International to execute these heinous briefs against our military?" he queried. The AI in its report had accused the Army officers and officials of the Civilian Task Force of raping women and girls displaced by insurgency in the North East.