A Senior Magistrate Court sitting in Lokoja yesterday ordered that Senator Dino Melaye representing Kogi West Senatorial District be remanded along with two others in the police custody till June 11. Melaye who was brought to the court in a stretcher, was arraigned alongside the duo of Kabiru Seidu, aka Osama and Nuhu Salisu, aka small on a seven-count charge of criminal conspiracy and unlawful possession of firearms. After the charges were read, Dr Alex Izinyon (SAN), the lead counsel for the prosecution, urged the court to remand Kabiru Seidu, 31 and Nuhu Salihu, 25 in police custody to assist the police in furtherance of their investigations, and to remand Senator Melaye in prison custody as the provisions of the enabling statutes indicate a minimum sentence of 10 years on conviction under the Firearms Act. He said that the senator was an influential person and could jeopardize investigation. Chief Mike Ozekhome (SAN), leading six other lawyers for the defendants, said Melaye was asthmatic and sick, and should be granted bail to go for medical attention. Ozekhome said the senator was on Wednesday granted bail by an Abuja court in liberal terms. He said it was discriminatory for the prosecution to ask the court to keep other defendants in police custody and the senator in prison custody. “We can apply for bail for this traumatized asthmatic senator of the Federal Republic of Nigeria lying here before your worship on a stretcher. Dino Melaye here is not charged with murder in this case. The senator who is seen every day on the floor of the Senate making laws for the country will stand his trial. I humbly urge my Lord to grant bail in self-recognition,” he said. In his ruling, Senior Magistrate Sulyman Abdullah said,  “The grounds of this application are not granted as a matter of course. They are anchored upon certain well timed, honoured principles of the law that would guarantee the production and appearance of the defendant. “The court however has a grave a responsibility to exercise such discretion with utmost caution and to act within the accepted principles of administration of justice. Having gone through all the submissions of counsels in respect of this oral application, I decline to exercise my discretion in favour of the fourth defendant (Melaye). The oral application is accordingly refused,” he said. Abdullah therefore ordered that the three defendants be remanded in police custody but ordered that the Inspector General of Police furnish the senator all required medical needs. He adjourned the case to June 11, for further mention.