The expression of interest by Mustapha Sule Lamido to contest for Jigawa Central Senatorial District under the Peoples Democratic Party (PDP) has earned him a sanction by the Dutse Emirate Council in Jigawa State. The emirate relieved Mustapha Lamido, one of the sons of former Governor Sule Lamido, of his position as the District Head of Bamaina in Birnin Kudu Local Government Area of the state, but said he will retain his traditional title of Santuraki of Dutse. The decision also affected Alhaji Aminu Wada Abubakar, who retained his title of Dokaji of Dutse but lost his position as District Head of Kiyawa in Kiyawa Local Government Area of the state. Speaking to Daily Trust, the Secretary of Dutse Emirate Council, Ahmed Malami, said by the rule of the emirate, one would not be a traditional title holder with portfolio and enter into partisan politics, adding that any title holder that wanted to join politics must be ready to forego his portfolio. He said it was the Birnin Kudu LG council, where Bamaina District is, that wrote to the emirate council questioning why a district head would be participating in politics, and that Lamido was given the chance to state his case. Malami said after Lamido confirmed his decision to join politics, the emirate decided to relieve him of his position as the District Head of Bamaina in accordance with the law. “The emirate council acted upon the letter written to it by Birnin Kudu Local Government Council, demanding to know why a traditional leader is participating in active politics. “The emirate council relieved him of his position as district head but his traditional title remains intact,” the Dutse emirate scribe added. Daily Trust recalls that Lamido was in 2016 suspended by the authorities “pending the determination of his prosecution by the Economic and Financial Crimes Commission (EFCC).” When contacted, Lamido told Daily Trust on phone that his “ordeal was politically motivated.” He said the letter for his suspension as District Head of Bamaina stated that he was suspended pending the determination of his case before the court. Lamido said the action of the government, which led to his removal as district head, was in contrast to what was stated in the letter of his suspension. He said a caretaker was appointed to oversee the Bamaina District following his suspension but that nobody talked about his case since then until the expression of his political ambition. He said the present administration saw his political movement as a serious threat to the All Progressives Congress (APC) in the state. Lamido however commended the Dutse Emirate Council for handling his case fairly even though the state government might have wished otherwise. “My suspension has turned out to be a blessing to me. They suspended me thinking that is all, but with what they are seeing now, the wave we are making politically is rattling them. This is what made them to take this position against me,” he said. Contacted, the spokesman of Governor Muhammadu Badaru of Jigawa State, Bello Zaki, said the state government had no hand in Lamido’s removal, adding that it was a decision of the emirate council under which he (Lamido) served.