For Buhari, the desire to solve the problems of other entrepreneurs has been his motivating factor. “The desire to solve problems most entrepreneurs face, has always been my motivation. Most branding companies run their production in bulk, most entrepreneurs have little capital trying to test run an idea, so they can’t afford the production in large quantity and all that, so my focus and target has always been the small and medium scale enterprises,”  he said. The young entrepreneur revealed how he slowly crept into the businesses to give them a face-lift. “After a while, I became not just their developer but also their business strategist. I am now a brand developer and strategist, business consultant, digital marketing expert, world merit ambassador and an aspiring motivational speaker,” said Buhari. The graduate of Biochemistry from Usman Danfodio University, Sokoto is cementing his entrepreneurial passion as he is reading for a Postgraduate Diploma in Entrepreneurship at the Kaduna State University. Buhari said he is also studying International Entrepreneurship and Innovations at the London Business School (LBS). He said his interest in printing and branding started as an undergraduate when a friend requested that he customized some shirts. “The friend, who was the social director of an association in the university then asked if I could customize their shirts. The next day, I decided taking customizing wears for people more seriously and also made it a business. “It led me to making series of researches on printing and eventually, branding. In the few years I have been in the business I have come to understand that branding plays a vital role and has a stronghold in any business success,” Buhari emphasized. One of the lessons he has learnt from engaging in the business so far is the ability to recognise the needs of other entrepreneurs. Hence, he hunts for the needs of entrepreneurs and work creatively to solve them, he said. Buhari said: “It has also taught me to realize that one needs to know and understand what direction they want their businesses to go to before they can be professionals in the field.” Affirming that he was in the right business, the biochemist turned brand consultant said he derived satisfaction from what he did since he started the business with N5,000 capital which he sourced from his school allowance. Buhari who is from Gwandu Local Government Area of Kebbi State, said he started in 2013 in his third year at the university and later registered the business. He now has the administrative and production offices in Kaduna State. He said: “I built a solid business structure by ensuring that I hire professional and competent people that understand the nature of the business. “I also intend to ensure that we create multiple sources of income that will be in line with our core aim of business incorporation like training and other consultancy services,” he added. With such business, the young entrepreneur said he makes a monthly turnover of at least N2 million as the company has grown significantly in just five years. He now employs eight persons permanently and has 10 apprentices. He added that the firm has got a contract from the Ahmadu Bello University Zaria, to train the first set of interns. To Buhari, diligence in what you do is the key to greater success. He urged other youth to be hard working in their studies and find ways of being innovative.