The Niger Delta Power Holding Company (NDPHC) said it has executed 25 projects in the Northeast to raise electricity distribution capacity and boost supply in the geopolitical zone.  The firm revealed this in Yola, Adamawa state when the Managing Director, Mr Chiedu Ugbo led its management team on a courtesy visit to the Governor, Mr Jibrilla Bindow, the board member representing the zone ahead of the NDPHC board meeting holding on Thursday.  Ugbo who was received by the Deputy Governor, Mr Martins Babale explained that the firm through its National Integrated Power Projects (NIPP) in the present administration has executed nine distribution intervention projects in the region.  Eight of them were completed and handed over to the Yola Electricity Distribution Company (YEDC) consisting of one in Nguru, Yobe state, and the rehabilitation of vandalised facilities in Maiduguri, Borno state. Three projects were completed each in Adamawa and Bauchi state while the ninth was on-going in Gujab and Gulani LGAs of Yobe state.  He said NIPP has also built 16 units of 7.5MVA 33KV injection substations in the region and had handed them over to YEDC to ensure they utilise them and supply more electricity to their customers.  Four substations were executed in Borno, four others in Adamawa, and two substations in Gombe. The others are two substations in Bauchi, two in Yobe and the two others in Taraba state.  Ugbo also noted that his team had visited two other governors and board members: Governor of Kebbi, Abubakar Atiku Bagudu, representing Northwest; and Willie Obiano of Anambra representing Southeast.  He said the management will visit other board members and governors of Plateau (North-central), Edo (South-South) and Lagos (Southwest) among the six geopolitical zones.  Babale who represented Governor Bindow lauded the company for the numerous project delivered in the Northeast and in the state. He noted that their blueprints on developing roads, health and other infrastructures requires improved power supply in the state for the masses to reap the benefits.  He assured on collaboration to ensure more projects are done in the state especially on transmission and distribution sections and in deploying solar power systems.