Sheikh Isyaku Rabi’u, who died in London yesterday at the age of 90, was better known in recent years for his battle against Sheikh Dahiru Usman Bauchi for leadership of the Nigeria branch of Tijjaniyya Muslim sect. Before their contest began to make headline news however, Sheikh Rabi’u was best known as one of Kano City’s and Nigeria’s top business figures. His children and himself had their hands in many business pies, ranging from trading to manufacturing and airlines. I never had the chance to meet the Sheikh during his lifetime but in 1995, when I was deputy editor and later editor of the defunct Sentinel magazine in Kaduna, I heard the story of an epic confrontation that the Sheikh was about to have with the Kaduna State Government, until cooler heads prevailed. That year, the simmering battle for supremacy between Sheikhs Rabi’u and Dahiru Bauchi suddenly burst into the open. It all started when Rabi’u went to Tunisia and there, leaders of the Tijjaniyya movement anointed him as the Khalifa of the sect in Nigeria. Back home however, Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi contested the anointment. One day in 1995 the editor of Sentinel, Malam Adamu Adamu took me to go and see Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi in his Tudun Wada residence in Kaduna. The matter of the supremacy battle came up in the discussion. Sheikh Dahiru spoke at length about it and explained in great detail Tijjaniyya’s hierarchical leadership system. He later repeated this explanation in Sentinel’s Hausa language sister newspaper. According to his explanation, he outranked Sheikh Rabi’u by far in the sect’s seniority order. He said Sheikh Rabi’u could only be the Khalifa of his father, the late Malam Rabi’u Dan Tinki, also a famed Tijjaniyya leader in Kano many decades ago. Probably provoked by the newspaper interview, Sheikh Rabi’u made a major move. He wrote a letter to the management of Federal Radio Corporation of Nigeria [FRCN], Kaduna and told them to stop Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi’s regular sermon on their station. He said as the Khalifa, he had decided to replace him with another preacher, since the slot was meant for the Tijjaniyya movement. The FRCN managers panicked; no one around remembered how Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi came to be delivering the sermon on the station. They therefore rushed to the Military Administrator of Kaduna State, Colonel [at the time] Lawal Jafaru Isa for guidance. Isa, who was a very able administrator, sent for some retired civil servants and asked if they knew the history. They told him that in 1978, when the new Izala movement was in hot confrontation with the very old Tijjaniyya movement, the latter protested what they called near monopoly of FRCN’s sermons slot by Sheikh Abubakar Mahmud Gummi, who had been doing it since the 1950s. Gummi was the spiritual father of the Izala Movement. According to the elders, the then Chief of Staff, Supreme Headquarters Major General Shehu Musa Yar’adua brokered peace by asking FRCN to give another sermon slot to Tijjaniyya. The sect nominated Sheikh Dahiru, who relocated from Bauchi to Kaduna in order to do the sermons. When Colonel Isa heard that, he told FRCN to maintain the status quo pending further consultations. Of course, he had little choice because trying to yank off Sheikh Dahiru Bauchi from the radio sermons could have caused unimaginable chaos. The proof of that, I think, was the Maulud that his faction of the sect held in Abuja three weeks ago, which grounded the federal capital.  On the same day, as part of their on-going tussle, Sheikh Rabi’u held another Maulud session in Kaduna and the crowd was just as impressive, though he did not personally attend it due to ill health. To return to our story, Sheikh Isyaku Rabi’u was very angry when he heard the Milad’s decision. He therefore phoned Colonel Jafaru Isa and said since he didn’t recognize him as the leader of Tijjaniyya in Nigeria, he was coming with one million followers to establish his leadership in Kaduna. The Milad then said, “Thank you very much, Sheikh. I will arrange with the GOC of the One Division to meet you at the Kano/Kaduna states’ border and give you a befitting welcome.” At that, Sheikh Rabi’u immediately protested the military threat and said he did not mean to cause trouble. Isa said, “Of course you meant to cause trouble. Given the security situation in the country, how can you bring one million people to storm Kaduna? You are from Kano; I am from Kano; the Head of State is also from Kano, and we are the ones to mess up one another.” Sheikh Rabi’u then said ok, he will no longer come with a million people but will instead come to Kaduna in a small plane with eight people. The Milad jumped at that and said he will send a three-member welcome party led by the SSG to the airport. That was how a terrible confrontation was averted but the leadership tussle between Sheikhs Rabi’u and Dahiru Bauchi continued until yesterday, when the former died in London after an illness. Apparently, last month’s double Maulud in Kaduna and Abuja was the two Tijjaniyya titans’ last personal confrontation. May Allah grant the departed Sheikh eternal rest in Aljanna Firdaus.