Some members of the ruling All Progressives Congress (APC) National Convention Committee (NCC) yesterday protested the review of the list of membership of the various sub-committees. The review, which led to the replacement of some members whose names had earlier been published, was said to have affected members of the aggrieved new Peoples Democratic Party (PDP). The affected members looked disappointed during the inauguration of the sub-committees yesterday by the convention committee. They claimed that some forces close to the presidency were responsible for the removal of about 50 names which were hitherto published on the convention committee list. A source, who was also affected, told journalists when they were protesting openly that “we were told that a powerful woman in the presidency sent in about 50 names to be replaced from the original list.” Some of the protesters, who argued with members of the accreditation committee, expressed displeasure that they were not being carried along in the processes leading to the national convention. The NCC chairman and governor of Jigawa State, Abubakar Badaru, who spoke with journalists after the inauguration of the convention committee and its sub-committees, confirmed that June 23 was suggested as possible date for the convention. Badaru said the suggestion would be discussed with the national secretariat of the APC. “It was suggested today (yesterday) that we should have the convention on June 23 but we will have to discuss it with the national secretariat to confirm the date,” he said. Badaru dismissed media reports that suggested that N6 billion would be spent on the convention, saying “I’m very sure it very far less than that. Tomorrow (today), we will get all the budgets from all the sub-committees. But I can assure you that it is far less. Knowing me and knowing what I stand for, you will know that it will be the cheapest convention ever.” He said the sale of forms for the aspirants for various soon-to-be vacant party positions would start Monday or Tuesday. On whether the crisis that arose from the ward, local and state congresses would affect the convention, the NCC chairman said, “I’m sure they will be resolved before the time of the convention. Most of those issues will be resolved in due time.” The APC NCC has 12 chairmen manning its sub-committees with 240 members.