Nigeria Professional Football League leading scorer, Junior Lokosa has once again demonstrated his prowess for scoring goals after leading Kano Pillars to victory over Katsina United yesterday evening. In what was dubbed North-West derby, the home side triumphed over their opponent in clinical fashion, spearheaded by Lokosa who had prior to this game scored 16 goals from 19 games. The MatchDay 21 game played at the 16,000 capacity Sani Abacha stadium erupted into cheers and applause when the Lokosa opened the scoring in the 8th minute following an assist from Nyima Nwagua. The ‘Sai Masu Gida’ side at the early stages of the game did not give their guests breathing space as Lokosa again attempted to increase his tally in the 16th minute but his close-range effort missed the target. The 2014 champions continued to pile pressure on the 2016 champions and their efforts yielded result in the 37th minute when Nyima Nwagua headed in Lokosa’s cross to double Pillars’ lead. At the restart of the second half, the home team continued from where they stopped and Lokosa once again slotted in his 18th goal of the season following a mix-up in the back pass between Kappe and Katsina’s keeper, Dami Paul in the 48th minute. However, the away side through Destiny Ashadi pulled one back in the 57th minute but that wasn’t enough for a comeback. Following this victory, Kano Pillars have 35 points after 21 games played and second on the league table while Katsina United are 5th with the same number of games played with 30 points. Plateau United also defeated Nasarawa United by 2-1 yesterday at the New Jos Stadium to record their first ever league double over their opponents. The Kenedy Boboye tutored side hit the ground running and were rewarded with a penalty in the 8th minute after Nasarawa’s Sanusi Ibrahim fouled Reuben Bala in the box which was expertly converted by Bature Yaro. The home side piled pressure on their visitors but wasted chances to double the lead and were nearly punished for their sloppiness. The game took a dramatic turn in the 34th minute following a red card issued to Nasarawa’s Douglas Achiv for dissent towards the referee after he was initially booked for a foul on Reuben Bala. Despite the numerical disadvantage to the away side, Najeem Olukokun headed Nasarawa back into the contest after connecting with a Samuel Oyedeji’s inch-perfect free kick. However, in the 71st minute, Reuben Bala restored the advantage for the home side following a loose ball from 20 yards. Plateau United are 3rd on the table with 33 points while Nasarawa Utd are 15th with 25 points Meanwhile, in other matches, Niger Tornadoes played out a 1-1 draw against Kwara United just as Go Round FC defeated Wikki Tourists 1-0. El-Kanemi Warriors battled Rivers United to a 1-1 draw. Also, MFM FC were humbled at home by Abia Warriors in a 1-0 defeat while Rangers failed to shoot down Akwa United in a goalless draw. IfeanyiUbah and Yobe Desert drew 1-1 while Sunshine Stars defeated Heartland 2-1.