President Muhammadu Buhari has nominated former Inspector General of Police, Musiliu Smith, as the chairman of the Police Service Commission (PSC). Smith, who served as IGP during President Olusegun  Obasanjo’s tenure, is to replace another former IGP Mike Okiro whose five-year tenure has elapsed. The president’s letter was read by the Senate President Bukola Saraki at plenary yesterday. Buhari also nominated Justice Clara Bata Ogunbiyi (North East) and retired AIG Lawal Bawa (North West) as full time commissioners of the PSC. Four others, Muhammad H. Najatu (North West), Braimoh Adogame Austin (South), Barrister Rommy Mom (North Central) and Dr. Nkemka Osimiri Jombo-Ofo (South East ) as members of the PSC. The president appealed to the senators for the early consideration and confirmation of the nominees. Executive/legislatures row fuel delay Despite a string of appointments made by the president in recent times there are some key agencies whose boards are yet to be put in place. A few are, however, awaiting Senate confirmation, some bottled up at the upper chamber for as long as a year, a fall out of the executive/senate feud. The delay is affecting the smooth running of the parastatals, as well as bringing several complications in handling their affairs. The vacuum created, analysts say, has led to unwholesome interventions in the running of the affairs of the agencies by supervising ministers of such agencies in the absence of the boards. Boards of these parastatals are responsible for setting out broad economic, financial, operational administrative guidelines and targets for their various agencies. They are also concerned with policy issues, monitoring of institutional projects, programmes and ensuring that the parastatals’ mandates are realized. President Buhari had dissolved the governing boards of the agencies on July 16, 2015 but waited until  29 December 2017 before appointing  chairmen and 1,258 members of 209 boards. Insiders in some of the agencies yet to get boards said the chief executives are running almost a one man show without checks and balances. “There is no transparency in recruitments and promotions since there is no objection from the heads of the agencies by any party. That is why they keep recruiting unqualified people to fill many vacancies in the office,” a staff of the Federal Inland Revenue Service told Daily Trust. Some of the parastatals that are very key in the economic or political space yet to have their boards constituted or inaugurated include the Nigerian Deposit Insurance Corporation (NDIC), the Security and Exchange Commission (SEC), Fiscal Responsibility Commission, Revenue Mobilisation Allocation and Fiscal Commission, Pension Commission, Federal Inland Revenue Service (FIRS), Federal Civil Service Commission (FCSC) and Federal Character Commission (FCC). Others are: the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria  (PCN) and the Medical and Dental Council (MDCN) has not been inaugurated till date. Daily Trust checks revealed that while the executive is yet to form some of the boards, there are others waiting for confirmation with the senate for over a year now. The unending row between the presidency and the National Assembly over the nomination of the acting Chairman of the Economic and Financial Crime Commission (EFCC), Ibrahim Magu has contributed to the delay in the confirmation of the board members. Some time last year, the Senate resolved to halt further confirmation of the president’s nominees because he had refused to replace Magu after the upper chamber declined to confirm his nomination. For instance, it was only on Wednesday that the Senate began consideration of President Buhari’s nominees for the board of the Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN), 13 months after the request was made. President Buhari forwarded the names of the nominees to the Senate in April last year for confirmation for CBN board. Others board nominations pending in the senate due to the stalemate are: Code of Conduct Bureau (CCB), Federal Judicial Service Commission (FJSC), National Population Commission (NPC), and Independent National Electoral Commission (INEC) . Why some boards yet to be inaugurated – SGF The Federal Government has said that some of the boards of the federal Ministries, Departments and Agencies (MDAs) were not inaugurated due to administrative and constitutional procedures. The Director Information Office of the Secretary to the Government of the Federation (OSGF), Lawrence Ojabo told Daily Trust yesterday that the boards would however be inaugurated soon. The excesses of the CEOs/Ministers The absence of the boards has in one way or the other affected the running of the agencies as well as sending bad signals to investors and other stakeholders. For instance in the case of the SEC, there were allegations of intervention in the running of the agency by Minister of Finance, Mrs Kemi Adeosun which suspended the former Director General, Mounir Gwarzo as well as the acting Director General, Abdul Zubair over the controversy that surrounded the investigation of an allegation against the Oando Plc, a company listed on the Nigeria Stock Exchange. Although the minister has since exonerated herself of any wrong doing in the Oando crisis in a statement recently she argued that her intervention was for the good of the stock market. However some analysts said if the board were in place, the minister’s power would have been limited. Investments and Securities Act, 2007 The Act which governs the SEC said the board shall be responsible for the general administration of the commission and, in particular, shall formulate general policies for the regulation and development of the capital market and the achievement and exercise of the functions of the commission. It also approves the audited and management accounts of the commission. The board appoints auditors for the commission; considers and approves the annual budget of the commission as may be presented to it by the management; establish zonal offices and carry out such other activities as are necessary and expedient for the purposes of achieving the objectives of the commission. In the case of the NDIC, the board is vested with the responsibility of superintending over the affairs of the corporation; to be responsible for the overall policy and administration of the corporation; and to make, alter and revoke rules and regulations for carrying on the business of the corporation under the NDIC Act. However, PART II (Administration) under the disqualification of members of the board, the act observed that whenever the board is dissolved, the Minister of Finance shall, in consultation with the Governor of Central Bank of Nigeria (CBN) constitute a Management Committee for the corporation to be made up of the following members, one of whom shall be appointed the chairman; the managing director, the executive director, a representative each of  CBN and the Federal Ministry of Finance, to perform the functions of the board until a new board is constituted. The absence of the board is generating accusation of wide spread abuse in the service, a source said. Recently, the FIRS was embroiled in recruitments scandal that saw only allegedly favoured candidates getting placements. The FIRS Act 2007 empowers the board to provide the general policy guidelines relating to the functions of the service; manage and superintend the policies of the service on matters relating to the administration of the revenue assessment, collection and accounting system under this act or any enactment or law; review and approve the strategic plans of the Service. The board also employs and determines the terms and conditions of service including disciplinary measures of the employees of the service; stipulate remuneration, allowances, benefits and pensions of staff and employees in consultation with the National Salaries, Income and Wages Commission; and do such other things which in its opinion are necessary to ensure the efficient/performance of the functions of the service under this act. Pharmacists Council of Nigeria Act is charged with the responsibility to regulate and control the practice of pharmacy education, training and practice in all aspects and ramifications. Registrar of the Pharmacists Council of Nigeria (PCN), Elijah Mohammed, said the absence of the board makes it difficult for enforcement of disciplinary actions against erring pharmacists and some other functions. President of the Pharmaceutical Society of Nigeria (PSN), Ahmed I. Yakasai recently called on the federal government to immediately reconstitute the board of the Pharmacist Council of Nigeria saying, disciplinary matters and accreditation of pharmacy facilities for training suffers in the absence of a board. The Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria has the statutorily mandate of training, registering and disciplining medical practitioners, and regulating medical practice in the country. Registrar of the Medical and Dental Council of Nigeria (MDCN), Dr Tajudeen Sanusi was not available for comment at press time. However the President of the National Postgraduate Medical College of Nigeria, Dr. Ademola Olaitan, had stated during a news briefing last year that the prolonged absence of a board at the council would affect standards in the health sector.