The Lagos State Commissioner for Transportation, Mr. Ladi Lawanson has said the state government would partner with relevant stakeholders to enforce the patronage of the newly commissioned computerized vehicle inspection centres. Lawanson stated this yesterday during the commissioning of the centres in Epe and Agric-Isawo in Ikorodu. It was in continuation of the commissioning of the eight centres which commenced on Wednesday. The centres, located across the nooks and crannies of the state, according to the commissioner, was aimed at improving the lives of motorists in Lagos. He said the administration of Governor Akinunwumi Ambode believes in strengthening road safety in the state not only to save lives but to improve the economy of the state. According to him, in line with the existing law which compels private vehicle owners to check their vehicles once in a year and commercial vehicles once in six months, the government would work with relevant stakeholders to enforce the law. The Managing Director of Lagos State Computerized Vehicle Inspection Service (LACVIS), Prince Segun Obayendo, said the state has been able to subsidize the charges paid by motorists, saying private vehicles would pay as low as N2000 to diagnose their vehicles. He said, "The good news is what we are doing is done all over the world and there is a regulatory body that controls what we do. Do you know how much they said we should charge? What does it take you for example if you have a Toyota Corrola, how much does it take you to fill your tank, that is how much you should pay for inspection once a year. "But the governor said, 'No, that would not be allowed in Lagos state.  It would be too high for Lagosians to apply the global standard for the pricing system'. So after much negotiation, we brought it down to N2,250 for a two-litre engine and N1,600 for commercial vehicles. So to the best of my knowledge if you can afford N1m to buy a car, what is N2,250 that you want to pay to save your life and to detect fault?' The state sector Commander of the Federal Road Safety Corps (FRSC), Hyginus Omeje said the state has made the job of his officers and men much easier, urging other states to emulate Lagos.