The operatives of the Lagos State Task Force have arrested a bullion van driver, Oke Onyeche, for allegedly driving against traffic. The police said that the 48-year old driver was arrested at Omole area of Ojodu Berger by the enforcement team of the taskforce at the weekend. The Chairman of the Lagos State Taskforce, Olayinka Egbeyemi, who confirmed the arrest said that the suspect was immediately arraigned at the State Mobile Court, at Oshodi, on a two-count charge of Obstruction and plying One-way. Egbeyemi said that it was the state Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, who directed that the bullion van driver be arraigned to serve as deterrent to others who believe that they can break the law at will. He said that the CP was surprised that with the level of enlightenment campaign by government,  motorists particularly educated private car owners could still drive against traffic without fear of imminent collusion with upcoming vehicles. He said that the Commissioner of Police also directed that the Agency should be on the lookout for any unauthorized private vehicle using siren, revolving light and those covering their number plates, emphasizing that the acts were purely illegitimate. He said: “Most motorists apprehended for this particular traffic offence, were basically, educated private car owner who ordinarily are expected to obeyed traffic laws without any strict enforcement.” Egbeyemi however urged motorists particularly commercial bus drivers to desists from driving against traffic, insisting that anyone arrested would not be spared. According to him, drivers are expected to obey the different traffic signs which are conspicuously displayed around Dopemu, Agege/Pen cinema, Apapa-Oshodi express way, Mile 2 and other part of Lagos. “The construction of alternative routes for motorists across all local governments and local council development areas of the state by Governor Akinwunmi Ambode was meant to ease off traffic congestion in Lago,” he said. Meanwhile, in his statement, the bullion van driver who admitted driving against traffic, said that he did so to get to his destination on time. He said that as a bullion van driver he never expected that he would be caught. “I want the government to please tamper justice with mercy,” he said. He said the empty bullion van belonged to Integrated Cash Management Services (ICMS) and that he would never in his life drive against traffic. He however pleaded guilty to the two count charge. Chief Magistrate Amos Olajuwon of the Lagos State Mobile Court who presided over the case adjourned the case to 18th of May, 2018 for ‘Facts and Sentence.’