President  Donald Trump welcomed three former U.S. prisoners at a military base  near Washington on Thursday, thanking North Korean leader Kim Jong Un  for their release and sounding upbeat on a planned summit between the  two sides. Trump and his wife, Melania, boarded the plane for about five minutes  before the men stepped out, shaking hands with the president and waving  to waiting media and military personnel. “Frankly we didn’t think it was going to happen and it did,” Trump said after thanking Kim for releasing the men. “We’re starting off on a new footing. This is a wonderful thing that he released the folks early.” Trump said he believed Kim wanted to bring North Korea “into the real  world” and was hopeful of a major breakthrough at their planned  meeting. “I think we have a very good chance of doing something very meaningful,” Trump said. “My proudest achievement will be – this is part of it – when we denuclearize that entire peninsula.” Trump and Kim engaged in a bellicose exchange of rhetoric last year  over North Korea’s development of nuclear missiles capable of reaching  the U. S. in defiance of UN Security Council resolutions. Tensions began to ease, coinciding with the North’s participation in the Winter Olympics in South Korea in February. Details of the planned summit have yet to be announced, but one U.S.  official said Singapore had emerged as the most likely venue. Trump said it would be held in a few weeks’ time. A White House spokeswoman said the three former prisoners would be  taken to Walter Reed National Military Medical Centre in nearby Maryland  for further medical evaluation. They are Korean-American missionary Kim Dong-chul, detained in 2015  and sentenced in 2016 to 10 years’ hard labor; Kim Sang-duk, also known  as Tony Kim, who spent a month teaching at the foreign-funded Pyongyang  University of Science and Technology (PUST) before he was arrested in  2017; and Kim Hak-song, who also taught at PUST and was detained last  year. “I was treated in many different ways, but overall I had to do much  labor and when I became ill I received some treatment,” Kim Dong-chul  said via a translator. The three had earlier given their thanks in a statement released by the State Department as their plane stopped over in Alaska. “We would like to express our deep appreciation to the United States  government, President Trump, Secretary Pompeo, and the people of the U.  S. for bringing us home,” the men said. “We thank God, and all our families and friends who prayed for us and  for our return. God Bless America, the greatest nation in the world.” North Korean state media said they were arrested either for subversion or “hostile acts” against the government. Until now, the only American released by North Korea during Trump’s  presidency was Otto Warmbier, a 22-year-old university student who  returned to the United States in a coma last summer after 17 months of  captivity and died days later. The release of the last U.S. detainees in North Korea appeared to  signal an effort by Kim to improve the tone for the summit and followed  his recent pledge to suspend missile tests and shut a nuclear bomb test  site. A U.S. official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said  Singapore had emerged as the likeliest location for the planned summit  after Trump ruled out holding it at the heavily fortified demilitarised  zone between North and South Korea.(Reuters/NAN)