Former President Olusegun Obasanjo has dissociated himself from a claim that he has changed his position against the second term bid of President Muhammadu Buhari. Obasanjo also said he did not meet with leaders of the organized labour on Tuesday as was alleged. Obasanjo reiterated in a statement yesterday that he stood by his statement earlier issued in January that Buhari’s regime had disappointed those who voted him as president. Obasanjo said emphatically in the statement signed by his media aid, Kehinde Akinyemi, that he had not and could not endorse failure. The statement said, “It has come to the attention of Chief Olusegun Obasanjo that some elements in the Muhammadu Buhari camp and or support group are desperate to secure a second term, fair or foul. In this desperation, everything is fair, including telling libelous lies against persons and institutions, instead of addressing the fundamental issues of statecraft and economic management. “In the last 24 hours the internet has been bombarded with deliberate falsehoods aimed at hoodwinking the unsuspecting Nigerians to believe that Obasanjo has now supported Buhari for his second term because of some perceived Buhari’s ‘superlative’ performance in his encounter with Trump during his visit to the White House in Washington D. C.” The statement said the part of the allegation that Obasanjo met with some Nigeria Labour Congress leaders in his house in Abuja on Workers’ Day was a pathetic fallacy as Obasanjo in the first place had no house in Abuja and he did not go to Abuja on the said date. “Nigerians know that Chief Obasanjo has only spoken the truth about widening poverty, alienation and social disunity and near disintegration of the country through Buhari’s incompetence,” the statement asserted. On Buhari’s meeting with President Donald Trump of the United States, Obasanjo said the US would continue to reduce purchase of crude oil from Nigeria and there was nothing Nigeria under Buhari could do about it. He added that the US would export agricultural products to Nigeria and Buhari’s government would encourage it, and that all the killings taking place in Nigeria by herders “are being done by expatriates trained by Gadaffi and no Nigerian is to blame and Buhari cannot do anything to stop it.” Obasanjo said Trump had ordered Buhari to go back home and stop the killings going on in Nigeria and he hoped that Buhari would do that.