The National President, Senior Staff Association of Nigerian Universities (SSANU), Comrade Samson Chijioke Ugwoke has urged the federal government to honour the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU)  it had signed with the association on the full implementation of the 2009 agreement so as to avert further industrial actions by its members. The Union leader made the call yesterday in Kano at the opening session of the 33rd National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting of the association in Bayero University Kano. He lamented over what he called ‘foot-dragging’ in the implementation of the agreement and other memoranda of understanding, saying the delay is not in the best interest of Nigerian education sector. He further accused the federal government of boycotting court orders in a move to bringing the protracted industrial disharmony to a conclusive end, describing it as an affront to Nigerian democracy and the rule of law. Apart from the reinstatement of some retrenched staff of university staff schools, other aspect of 2009 agreement to be discussed during the NEC meeting would be the nonpayment of “earned allowances” to the nonteaching staff union by some universities, the development SSANU president said has been causing confusion in many federal universities across the country. “In the best interest of democracy the federal government should honour the memorandum of understanding it had signed with the nonteaching staff unions. They should not just enter into an agreement just for the sake of suspending strikes. “Secondly, this is a democratic government predicated on the rule of law, as such government should always respect court judgments. Court is under judiciary, it is the third arm of government, so when court gives judgment the executive arm is supposed to comply” he said. Accountant General of the Federation, Alhaji Ahmed Idris who was presented an award of meritorious service to the nation by SSANU during the opening session of the two-day meeting, appealed to the members of the association to be calm, and exhibit sense of partiotism as they push for their demand, saying the matter is under discussion at the federal level.