Daily Trust: How would you describe your father? Fatima Rikadawa: My father is such a wonderful dad who has lived up to our expectations. He ensures that we never lack anything. To all his children, he is the best friend we ever had. He relates with us as if we are his friends. That is why we always miss him whenever he travels to shoot movies. DT: What do you cherish about your father? Fatima: I cherish the effort he makes to be with us despite his busy schedules. The quality time and attention he gives. He makes us feel that he is not just our father but also our comforter and confidante. DT: What makes him angry? Fatima: If you want to see him get angry, then don’t do what he asked you to do at the particular time he asked you to do it. He gets angry when you neglect his instruction. We are all aware of that and we always make sure we do what he asks us to do on time. Though he is very nice and friendly to be with, he dislikes being disappointed. DT: How do you feel being the daughter of Rikadawa the Kannywood actor? Fatima: Whenever I am referred to as Rikadawa’s daughter in public, I usually stand out among my peers as if I am also a star like my father. To be candid, on such situations I feel that I am getting attention I did not work for. Being Rikadawa’s daughter earned me lots of friends and made many people want to relate with me. DT: What usually makes him happy? Fatima: My father usually gets elated when we perform excellently in our respective schools; he believes in and cherishes hard work and positive results. He also gets in a good mood whenever he asks us to do something at a particular time and we successfully do it. As I stated earlier, he hates disappointments especially when it comes from his children. DT: Can you tell us his favourite food? Fatima: He loves rice and beans and also enjoys eating anything ‘swallow’ with draw soup. In a nutshell, my father loves African delicacies. DT: Besides acting, what other profession do you think he would have been good at? Fatima: My father is a very industrious person and I am optimistic that besides movie making, he would have been a businessman and a successful one at that. DT: How does he relax? Fatima: We collectively watch movies at home when he is at his best relaxing mood. Most times we all gather together and even if we are not watching any movie, we would discuss sundry issues together as a family.