Constituents of members of the National Assembly who died recently have cried out over the failure of Senate President Bukola Saraki and Speaker Yakubu Dogara to declare such seats vacant to pave the way for INEC to conduct by-elections. The senators who died are, Ali Wakili (APC, Bauchi South), Mustapha Bukar (APC, Daura zone) and a member of the House of Representatives, Buba Jibrin (APC, Lokoja Federal Constituency). People spoken to urged the leadership of the National Assembly to set politics aside and do the needful, saying it was against the letters of the Nigerian Constitution to be denied representation in national discuss. INEC could only organize by-elections within 90 days subject to receipt of notice of vacancy from the legislature; and in the event the National Assembly remained silent, the seats could continue to remain vacant. The Chairman of Daura Emirate Development Association (DEDA), Aliyu Bala Daura, appealed to the Senate to communicate to INEC so that the processes for replacement of Senator Bukar could start. “We are concerned and keenly watching the development and will take a look at what the law says should the period expire and no action is taken,” he said. On his part, a youth leader, Musa Badamasi Daura, said the zone was deeply concerned because they had no representation in the Senate. “With the apparent silence by the Senate president, the stakeholders should team up and ensure the right thing is done. In Katsina, we in Daura are out of the bargain. This is the senatorial zone of the president and it has no representation,” he said. A constituent from Bauchi ‎Local Government, Danlami Inuwa, lamented that the senatorial zone had lost its good representation since the death of Senator Wakili on March 17. “The Nigerian Senate has not been fair to us. Many people are now interested to fill the seat but they have refused to even declare the seat vacant so that INEC can prepare for the by-election. “I wonder what is keeping the Senate from declaring the seat vacant and giving us the chance to elect another person to represent us. The politicians in the state are also not showing seriousness. The APC and opposition political parties are also not putting enough pressure on the issue,” he said. Another constituent and a former commissioner from Bogoro Local Government, Audu Gani Bogoro, said some vested interests had deprived the people of Bauchi South the chance to be represented at the Senate. “If I have the means, I would have taken the National Assembly to court for not declaring the seat vacant because they are denying us access to representation at the national level. We don’t have anybody to talk on our behalf at the Senate; so, for us, it is a great injustice,” he said. A constituent from Lokoja, Umar Ali, expressed sadness that no step had been taken to replace Rep Jibril who passed away 56 days ago. “Honestly it is a very sad development; we have been discussing this issue for some time now because, if the law says there should be a by-election after 90 days and after about 56 days of the death of our representative, nothing has been heard, then it is quite unfortunate.” On his part, Ishaq Dan-Imam from Kogi LGA said, “I feel very bad over the development because I believe we, the constituents, are losing out as a result of non-representation at the House of Reps more so that we have had a very vibrant and rugged legislator who protected our interest very well before his death. “Several projects which he attracted to his constituency were ongoing but his death has now slowed down the pace of those projects. For instance, the Medical Centre Project at Koton-Karfe is now suffering neglect because of his death,” he said.