Twenty seven people died and 64 others were injured in twin bomb blasts that rocked a mosque and stalls at a busy market in Mubi town yesterday. Witnesses said loud explosions ripped through the Gwanjo market around 1 pm when the market was crowded and traders prepared for noon prayers, leaving behind dismembered bodies of victims. The first blast occurred at the mosque located in the market, killing all members of the congregation before the second one destroyed another part of the market. Security agents quickly mobilised to the scene and cordoned off the scene, evacuating the victims while  turning away sympathisers and people looking for information about their friends and family members. A staff of the General Hospital in Mubi who did not want his name published because he had no authority to speak to the press, said the hospital had so far received 27 corpses and 64 wounded people. “Kasuwan Kuturu market and cattle markets have been deserted for fear of being targeted after we heard that the markets would be attacked,” a resident said. Military authorities at the 23 Task Force Battalion in Mubi could not be reached for immediate comment, but the Adamawa State Commissioner of Police, Abdullahi Ibrahim Yerima told journalists in Yola that  20 people were critically injured while the number of the dead had not yet been ascertained. But the Adamawa State Government confirmed 27 dead and 56 injured from yesterday’s twin blasts. The state Commissioner of Information and Strategy, Ahmad Sajoh, said in a statement made available to NAN in Yola that the 56 injuried persons were on admission in hospital. “While condemning the satanic, cowardly and dastardly act, His Excellency Sen. Mohammed Umar Jibrilla Bindow, the executive Governor of Adamawa State, had ordered the immediate provision of medical supplies and mobilization of medical officers to the general hospital in Mubi. In addition, the Adamawa State Emergency Management Agency (ADSEMA) had been ordered to supply food and non-food items to the hospital to cater for victims and victims relations,” the statement said.