Economists and business leaders have expressed concerns that six months after receiving the 2018 budget the federal lawmakers were yet to pass it. The budget was presented by President Muhammadu Buhari to the National Assembly on November 7, 2017. The senate leader, Senator Ahmad Lawan told Daily Trust in an interview that the budget will likely be passed this week.  “I am very optimistic that all of us in the National Assembly will ensure that this week, if we are able to get the report, we should be able to pass it,” Lawan said. However, the appropriation committee of both chambers are yet to harmonise the budget. After the harmonisation, the two chambers must pass it before sending it to the president for assent. While presenting the budget in November, President Muhammadu Buhari appealed to the National Assembly to pass the budget before the end of 2017. So far the budget has spent 177 days before the National Assembly, making it one of the most delayed budgets by the National Assembly in the last six years. There were concerns that the economic recovery plan of the government is in jeopardy due to the delay in the budget. Some analysts also believe even if the budget is passed now the executive may still take time to scrutinise it in order to avoid issues such as padding. The 2017 appropriation Act will lapse by the end of this month, after which no spending will be allowed still the passage of the 2018 bill. The Managing Consultant and Chief Executive Officer of Time-Line Consult Limited, Shuaibu Idris Miqati said the budget delay is ridiculous. “It’s surprising that the month of April has ended without the 2018 Appropriation Bill being passed by the National Assembly.” He noted that the appropriation bill should be a routine thing to deal with by the legislators since it comes to them annually. Again, he said it is part of the government’s Medium Term Expenditure Framework which has been with the Nation Assembly for over 18 months now. He said government rolled out several economic and agricultural policies which require backing from appropriation spending. “These policies and programs could be affected by the absence of an appropriation act. The impact to the Nation is huge and all concerns should help speak with the leadership of the National Assembly to do justice to the appropriation bill just as they were prevailed upon on the issue of appointments in to Monetary Policy Committee and Deputy Governors of Central Bank,” he said. Idris said the National Assembly should accord certain bills before them the priority they deserve. Annual budgetary estimates should be a priority item and should have been treated with dispatch as it rightly deserves. He explained that if legislators have borrowed a leaf from what is obtainable in other climes by hiring assistants or consultants to help them with digesting any documents sent to them, the period of delay would have reduced significantly. He noted that the disagreement and rancour between the executive and the legislature is unhealthy as it is affecting governance. Former Managing Director, Arewa Hotels Limited and the chairman of Murely Ventures Limites, Kano, Alhaji A.H. El-Yakub said the scenario is not healthy for the economy even though the 2017 budget was extended up to May 2018. He noted that the government is the prime mover of the economy and therefore urged that the budget needs to be passed in order to stimulate the economy and consolidate the economic growth after exiting the recession. A financial expert and former Kaduna state governor, Alhaji Ahmad Muhammad Makarfi, said the delay in passing the budget is unfortunate. “I think the executive and the legislature must work together in the overall interest of Nigeria and make sure that the budget is passed judiciously. I don’t know why the budget has not been passed, I don’t want to be passing blame, but it takes two to tango and both the executive and legislature must work together.”