Following the expiration of the 21-day ultimatum given to Government to effect the recall of all sacked resident doctors in Jos University Teaching Hospital (JUTH) and also to meet all outstanding agreement contained in the September 6, 2017 Memorandum of Terms of Settlement; the National Association of Resident Doctors of Nigeria (NARD) has scheduled an extraordinary National Executive Council meeting to hold on Saturday; warning that it may not be able to guarantee continuous industrial harmony.  The Joint Health Sector Union (JOHESU) and Assembly of Health Care Professionals had since April 17, 2018 being on strike as a result of which health care in the country has been anchored upon the shoulders of doctors  Addressing newsmen in Kaduna yesterday, the NARD publicity and social secretary, Dr. Ugochukwu A. Eze recalled that on March 27, 2018, the association had an extraordinary National Executive Council meeting where issues pertaining to the unjust sack of Resident Doctors in Jos University Teaching Hospital, (JUTH) were extensively discussed.  “At the end of the meeting, a 30 days ultimatum was issued starting from the April 2, 2018 which elapsed on the May 2, 2018. Twelve days after the expiration of the ultimatum, at the Ordinary General Meeting which held at Ahmadu Bello University Teaching Hospital (ABUTH) in Zaria from May 5-11, 2018, the ultimatum was extended by 21 days to allow Government time to effect recall of all sacked residents doctors in JUTH and also to meet up with all outstanding agreement contained in the September 6, 2017 Memorandum of Terms of Settlement. This ultimatum ends today (yesterday) May 31, 2018,”  “NARD has done all that was required to help solve the problem in JUTH through extensive advocacy. The September 2017 strike was suspended to allow government complete implementation of the terms of settlement but there are still unmet agreements by the Government. It may also interest the general public to know that the members of JOHESU have been on strike for over 44 days and health care has been anchored upon the shoulders of resident doctors,” he said.  He therefore appealed to the public to impress on government to reciprocate the good will of the resident doctors and solve their problems. “An extraordinary National Executive Council meeting of NARD has been scheduled to hold on June 2, 2018 and we may not be able to guarantee continuous industrial harmony should our legitimate agitations be ignored by government,” he stressed.  Residency training programme is a programme where specialist doctors are trained to guarantee availability of Specialist Health Services in the country and minimize brain drain.