Abdullahi Adamu (Nasarawa) was on February 2010 arraigned over misappropriation of N15bn alongside 18 others. Ahmed Sani Yerima (Zamfara) was docked on a 19-count charge of corruption by the Independent Corrupt Practices and Other Related Offences Commission (ICPC) over alleged diversion part of the N1bn project funds. Joshua Dariye (Plateau) was charged by the EFCC on a 21-count charge bordering on breach of trust and diversion of N1.162bn of the ecological fund. Orji Uzor Kalu (Abia) is facing trial at the Federal High Court in Lagos, for an alleged N3.2bn fraud. Ibrahim Shekarau (Kano) was arraigned by the EFCC over alleged money laundering on May 24 in a six-count charge bordering on conspiracy and money laundering to the tune of N950m as part of the People’s Democratic Party (PDP) campaign funds for the 2015 elections. Jonah Jang (Plateau) was charged on May 7 over alleged misappropriation of over N6bn, two months to the end of his tenure as governor of Plateau in 2015. Rashidi Ladoja (Oyo) is facing trial before the Federal High Court in Lagos over allegations of converting N4.7bn from the state treasury to his personal use. Christopher Alao-Akala (Oyo) is being tried over alleged N11.5bn fraud. Gbenga Daniel (Ogun) is facing a 38-count charge for allegedly stealing and mismanaging N211.3m. Saminu Turaki (Jigawa) is being tried for 52-count charge bordering on money laundering and fraud to the tune of N36bn. Sule Lamido (Jigawa) is being charged with his sons, Aminu and Mustapha for allegedly defrauding his state to the tune of N1.35bn. Gabriel Suswan (Benue) is standing trial for allegedly diverting over N3.1bn from the proceeds of the sale of shares by the Benue state government. Murtala Nyako (Adamawa) and his son, Senator Abdul Aziz Nyako are on trial for alleged criminal conspiracy, abuse of office, stealing and money laundering to the tune of N29bn. Ahmadu Fintiri (Adamawa) is on trial over money laundering. Attahiru Bafarawa (Sokoto) was charged before a Sokoto State High Court over alleged N15bn fraud. Danjuma Goje (Gombe) faces a 21-count charge in connection with a N25bn fraud. Chimaroke Nnamani (Enugu) is facing money laundering charges to the tune of about N4.5bn. Bukola Saraki (Kwara) is facing a 13-count charge at the Code of Conduct Tribunal (CCT) bordering on false assets declaration while he was the governor of his home state. Late Michael Botmang (Plateau) faced trial for allegedly pocketing N1.5bn state funds up till the time of his death. Ikedi Ohakim (Imo) is charged with a cash payment of $2.29m for a land at Plot No. 1098 Cadastral Zone A04, Asokoro District of Abuja. Ibrahim Shema (Katsina) is on trial over N5.7bn SURE-P Fund. Peter Odili (Rivers) was granted a perpetual injunction granted by Justice Ibrahim Buba of the Federal High Court. EFCC accused Odili in a draft charge of allegedly embezzling about N100bn of Rivers State money during his eight-year tenure as governor.