Workers in Ebonyi State have rejected the appeal by Governor David Umahi to commence deductions for the state’s controversial contributory pension scheme. The rejection came after a 10-point request presented by the state Chairman of Trade Union Congress (TUC), Comrade Emake Nwanu, on behalf of workers in the state to increase their monthly salary and pay pension to retired workers as well as gratuity and promotion arrears, among others. The workers yesterday expressed their rejection to the deductions, scheduled to start this month, when they joined their counterparts to mark the 2018 May Day celebration held at the Ngele Oruta Township Stadium, Abakaliki. Organized labour wants probe of 2 years' salary payments in Kogi The Kogi State chapter of the Nigeria Labour Congress (NLC) has called for a  comprehensive audit of how funds that accrued to the state in the last two years were utilized in the payment of workers’ salaries. The state Chairman of the NLC, Onuh Edoka, who made the call yesterday in Lokoja during the May Day rally, said it was absurd that many civil servants and pensioners were still being owed several months of salaries and pensions despite the ‘colossal amounts’ that had come to the state in form of bailout, Paris refund, ecological fund and monthly statutory allocations. He said despite the civil service reforms carried out by the state government which weeded out unintended beneficiaries from the payrolls, many workers were still being owed several months while some had been receiving percentages of their salaries. Addressing the rally, Kogi State Governor, Alhaji Yahaya Bello said government understood the suffering of workers and would strive to have the salaries paid. Ekiti: Workers demand unpaid salaries Civil servants in Ekiti State yesterday demanded payment of outstanding salaries. This covers three years promotion arrears in the civil service between 2015 and 2017. The state chairman of the NLC, Comrade Raymond Adesanmi, said at the 2018  May Day celebration held at the Oluyemi Kayode Stadium, Ado Ekiti, that workers were hungry. He said the state government was owing civil servants five months while local government workers were owed eight months and workers in higher institutions were owed six months. In his speech, Governor Fayose said, “Every state is supposed to get its own share of the extra dollars on the sales of oil in the country, but the FG is not giving the state its due allocation.” Gombe, Zamfara workers demand retirees’ benefits The Gombe State Council of the NLC has called on Governor Ibrahim Hassan Dankwambo to release more funds to settle the gratuities of retirees. Chairman of the council, Comrade Haruna Kamara, made the call yesterday at the commemoration of the 2018 Worker's Day held at the Gombe Township Stadium, saying Governor Dankwambo had recorded numerous achievements in terms of provision of infrastructure and prompt payment of salaries and pensions to civil servants and retirees, “but there is need to release additional funds to pay gratuities of retirees.” In Zamfara State, the NLC called for the review of local government pension. The chairman of the Union in the state, Comrade Bashir Mafara, said pensioners under the Local Government Pension Commission were being economically deprived as they were receiving a meager amount as monthly  pension. "Some of the retired civil servants under this category receive as low as N3,000 monthly,” he said. Jos: Labour asks Lalong to pay LG workers, teachers' salaries The Plateau State Chairman of the NLC, Comrade Jibrin Banchir, has urged the state government to immediately pay the monies it has been owing the local government workers as well as primary school and tertiary institution teachers. Speaking yesterday during the Workers Day celebration in Rwang Pam Township Stadium in Jos, Banchir said the lack of payment of these legitimate earnings was unacceptable, and expressed displeasure against the state government for not honouring the court’s judgement to pay the said outstanding salaries. Governor Simon Lalong, in his remark, said that N375 million had been approved for the purchase of 800 hectares of land for the construction of low cost houses for workers, and that in 2016 workers' arrears of seven months and pension of eight months was cleared. Sokoto: Workers mark day with special prayer for late Imam The Workers Day yesterday was celebrated in Sokoto with special prayers for the repose of the soul of the Special Adviser to Governor Aminu Waziri Tambuwal on Media and Public Affairs, Malam Imam D. Imam who died in the early hours of last Friday. The prayer was led by Comrade Hassan Abdullahi of School of Nursing and Midwifery, Unguwan Rogo, shortly after the parade by members of the NLC held at the Giginya Memorial Stadium. Speaking, the state chairman of the NLC, Comrade Aminu Umar described Imam as humble and hardworking. He prayed Allah to grant the deceased eternal rest and Jannatul Firdaus. Addressing the workers, Governor Aminu Tambuwal promised to retain cordial relationship with them to sustain a dynamic civil service. Benue: Workers mourn victims of attacks Workers in Benue State yesterday mourned victims of attacks in various parts of the state as they joined their counterparts across the world to mark this year's May Day. Daily Trust reports that the event which held at the IBB Square in Makurdi did not witness the usual fanfare. Instead, prayers were made for God to intervene in the ongoing killings in the state. Chairman of the Senior Staff Association of Nigeria Universities (SSANU), Emmanuel Nyiyongo, said they could not be dancing while there were corpses in various mortuaries in the state. "That was why we didn't invite the arts council or have a match pass or cutting of cake. We are surrounded by privileged terrorists," he said. The state Chairman of the NLC, Godwin Anya, expressed support of Benue workers for the anti-grazing law which he described as the panacea and global best practices for harmony between farmers and herders. Governor Samuel Ortom thanked the workers for their resilience."There has been intimidation and blackmail but each time I look back, I see the people of Benue state unanimously behind me as far as the grazing law is concerned,” Ortom said. Katsina: NLC backs contributory pension scheme The Katsina State chapter of the NLC has thrown its weight behind the contributory pension scheme introduced by the state government and urged its members to understand its content and support it. The state NLC Chairman, Tanimu Saulawa, while addressing workers on May day celebration, said the Jigawa Model which was being adopted by the Katsina state government provides lump sum gratuity after retirement. “We are convinced that the model will lead to dignified and comfortable life in retirement because it is considered to be the most responsive and discerning in the country,” he said.