The Northern Governor’s Wives Forum has commended the federal government for the ban on the importation and production of codeine. Chairperson of the Forum, Hadiza Mohammed Abdullahi Abubakar, in a statement by her Press Secretary, Rashida Yusuf, said the ban imposed by the Federal Ministry of Health was a major breakthrough in the fight against drug abuse and addiction in the country. The statement said the northern governors’ wives have made the fight against drug abuse a priority, adding that Benue, Kebbi, Kogi, Niger, and Bauchi states had already set up drug community volunteer scheme, skills acquisitions and drop-in-centres as well as provided female rehabilitation centres in their states. Similarly, the Synod of the Minna Diocese of the Anglican Communion has lauded President Muhammadu Buhari for banning the manufacturing and importation of codeine-laden syrups into the country. The Synod also appreciated the effort of the federal government and the military in the war against terrorism, especially the dislodging of the members of the Boko Haram sect from their base in the Sambisa forest. In a Communiqué issued at the end of the first session of the 10th synod held at the Cathedral Church of St. Peter, Minna, the Synod also commended the federal government for coming up with some social intervention programmes targeting the youths, women and the vulnerable. The communiqué which was signed by the Bishop of Minna Diocese, Rt. Rev Daniel Yisa however urged the federal government to put an end to herdsmen attacks, work towards the release of the remaining Chibok school girls, Leah Sharibu and other captives been held by the Boko Haram. The synod also appreciated the ongoing negotiation between government and the labour unions in revisiting the minimum wage issue and particularly commended the Niger state government for prompt payment of salaries of workers. It called for proactive strategies for early warning and interventions particularly in areas known to be flash points for violence