A Federal High Court in Kano has granted bail to former Kano State governor, Malam Ibrahim Shekarau, Ambassador Aminu Wali and Engineer Mansur Ahmed on the sum of N100m each. Shekarau, Wali and Ahmed were arraigned before Justice Zainab B. Abubakar on a six-count charge bothering on money laundering to the tune of N950m. When the charges were read to the three accused persons, they pleaded not guilty. Their counsel, Mr Sam T. Ologunorisa, said “My clients are on bail since May 2016 and have never jumped bail or temper with the commission’s investigation and they always complied with the directives of the commission. “Now, the commission has completed its investigation into this case and all witnesses in this case are available and ready to appear before the court. So based on this development, I humbly apply for the bail of my clients.” Counsel to the EFCC, Mr Jonson Ojogbane, did not object to the bail application, but urged the court to grant the bail on certain terms and conditions. Justice Zainab B. Abubakar granted Shekarau, Wali and Ahmed bail in the sum of N100m each with two reliable sureties in the like sum. She said one of the sureties must possess a landed property within the jurisdiction of the court while the other must be a director in either state or federal civil service. She said the accused and the sureties must deposit their travelling passports at the office of the deputy registrar of the court. Zainab adjourned the case till June 26 for continuation. Meanwhile, scores of supporters Shekarau and Wali were injured yesterday when armed policemen deployed to the court fired live ammunition and tear-gas canisters to disperse them . The police action caused pandemonium among the dignitaries, journalists and lawyers that attended the session. Shekarau, Wali and Ahmed, who spent the night in the custody of EFCC, were brought to the court at 7:20am amidst tight security, while the trial commenced at 9a.m. Trouble started shortly after Justice Zainab B. Abubakar granted the three accused persons bail and people started leaving the court. Hundreds of supporters of the two politicians, who converged outside the court, insisted on reaching the main gate, but the police started firing tear-gas and live ammunitions into the air to disperse them. Shekarau, Wali and Ahmed were later whisked away by operatives of the EFCC. When contacted, the Police Public Relations Officer, SP Magaji Musa Majia confirmed the incident, but said the action of the police was aimed at dispersing the crowd to maintain law and order. He said, “It is unfortunate if the tear-gas canisters fired had affected some innocent people. It is not intentional. Our aim is to disperse the crowd of the youths that have attempted to gain access into the court and we were compelled to use tear-gas because the youths wanted to overpower the police and force themselves into the court.”