Some traditional rulers in the Ojo area of Lagos at the weekend joined officials of the Federal Road Safety Corps, Unit 2.112, to sensitize commercial bus drivers to the dangers of using mobile phones while driving. The group went from one motor park to another in the area to give hints on road safety. The move was part of activities outlined by the FRSC to mark the West Africa Road Safety Organization’s 10th year anniversary. The group, led by the Unit Commander, Obagbemiro Adeyemi, visited motor parks that included those of GUO and Ekesons Motors along the Mile 2-Badagry expressway, which is an international route that links Nigeria to other West African countries. Adeyemi said that the unit deliberately chose Iyana-School bus stop in Ojo for the rally since it leads commercial bus drivers plying the West Africa route to the Seme border. He said that the event, with the theme, “WARSO in the Last Decade:  The Journey So Far,” was apt since it afforded member-states the opportunity to assess their successes and challenges. He noted that part of the challenges so far had to do with the use of mobile phones by drivers while driving, stressing such an act contravenes Regulation 166 of the National Road Traffic Regulation 2012. According to him, the law provides that no driver, while driving, should use any form of communication device, adding that it was also an offence for a driving instructor to make telephone communication while giving instruction to a learner driver. He explained that the objective of the FRSC was not to impose fine or send defaulters to prison but to secure changed behaviour by road users. He said, “No message is as important as your life, and what that means is that all messages can wait to the extent that your life is not compromised. If you receive a call while you are driving, the best thing to do is to pull over safely and answer the call if you feel it is very important. Passengers in vehicles must also ensure that their lives are not compromised because of a careless driver who insists on answering call while the vehicle is in motion.” Adeyemi listed the achievements of WARSO to include the introduction of the use of retro-flective tapes and speed limiting device by vehicles in West Africa, as well as establishing regional accident reports and information templates. “This celebration will provide member-states an ample opportunity to reflect on the past performances of the organization. It will also aid critically review of its strengths and weaknesses in the phase of growing road safety challenges in the sub-region,” he said.