Death toll from an attack on Gwaska village in Birnin Gwari area of Kaduna has risen to 40, sources have told Daily Trust. “The number was realised during the evacuation of bodies from the village by a joint team including men of the Nigerian Police Force(NPF) and the Civilian Joint Task Force (JTF). "Up till the time we got to the village, houses where still up in flames, as we filled four Hiluxs vehicles with dead bodies," the source who did not want to be mentioned said.  Read also: Breaking: Armed bandits kill 27 in Birnin Gwari
Read also  Abductors of Birnin Gwari brides demand N5m Daily Trust had early reported that 27 people were killed in an attacked by armed bandits from neighbouring Zamfara state on Saturday afternoon. One week ago, local miners at Janruwa village in the local government area  where killed This comes after the deployment of 200 additional policemen, 10 patrol vehicles and two more divisions by the Inspector General of Police, Ibrahim Idris who visited the area recently to access the situation on ground. Correspondents say the bandits burnt down the village of about 3,000 inhabitants completely and survivors mostly women are taking refuge at Doka district in the area. Members of the local government under the umbrella of the Birnin Gwari Vanguards for Peace and Good Governace said "Most of those killed are volunteers that tried to defend the village and children that cannot escape the onslaught. "The vigilantes informed us that the casualties will be more but promised to mobilized tomorrow for evacuation of more casualties. "We would continue to appeal to authorities to take urgent steps to forestall further attacks and extinction of communities in Birnin-Gwari local government area of Kaduna State." A reliable source who pleaded for anonymity for fear of being attacked confirmed the development. He said, "The Gunmen are from Zamfara state axis attacking and shooting people mostly children. They also completely burnt down many house's in Gwaska village where they spent over three hours. "The survivors escape to Doka village and the injured ones have been taken to Birini Gwari hospital." The Police Public Relations Officer, ASP Mukhtar Aliyu confirmed the attack but did not give the number of casualties.