Lagos State Governor Akinwunmi Ambode alongside billionaires Aliko Dangote and Femi Otedola inspected on-going works at the multi-billion naira Dangote jetty among other projects at the Lekki Free Trade Zone. During the tour, which also had his cabinet members present, Governor Ambode said “the massive investments” being jointly carried out in the axis by government and the private sector was targeted at making Lagos as the next destination for business in Africa. Ambode, in a statement signed by his Chief Press Secretary, Habib Aruna, said remarkable progress had been made since the last time a major inspection tour of the projects was carried out. “We have just inspected the ongoing jetty project being done by Alhaji Aliko Dangote. You are all well aware that we flagged off the construction of Lekki Deep Sea Port some few weeks ago but more importantly this jetty is being done by the Dangote Group to more or less facilitate the movement of their heavy duty machinery to the petrochemical plant and other projects they are doing in this Lekki Free Trade Zone,” the governor said. Dangote also said the combined projects under construction at the Lekki Free Trade Zone was the largest anywhere in the world, and that it was important for the right message about the axis to be communicated to the people to appreciate its impact on the economy. “What is happening here is the largest project anywhere in the world today and this visit is just to show the Governor the industrial jetty that we have built including the water breaker which is 900meters which is almost like about a mile. “This is to show what we have done in terms of bringing in our cargo to build the refinery. We have done quite a lot in terms of water protection and also it is environmentally friendly and this is what we have shown the governor. “This is just showing that this place is going to really open for business and we are looking for a lot of infrastructure to be built and this place will be the next destination for any investment in Nigeria,” Dangote said.