A 50-year-old lady, Regina Ibeto, who allegedly operates a fake medical centre in the Ajangbadi area of Lagos State, has been arrested for alleged child trafficking. Ibeto, who was paraded yesterday before newsmen at the Lagos police command, Ikeja, and had confessed to selling a week-old baby, said she was compelled to sell the boy because his mother told her a pathetic story of how her father impregnated her. The suspect said, “I was at home when a lady brought in Buki who was due for labour. The lady told me a pathetic story of how Buki’s father put her in the family way and she (Buki) wanted to do away with the pregnancy as it was a product of abomination. “I asked her if she really meant what she said, and she answered yes. I weighed what she said and saw reason with her that it would be an abomination if the public got to know of it. She was 16 years old at that time; I felt that she was too young to carry the stigma. “So I spoke with a woman, Udoji Chukeunonye, who was looking for the fruit of the womb to buy the baby. Luckily, Buki delivered a bouncing baby boy, who we sold to Chukwunonye. I gave Buki part of the money to start a new life and advised her to stay clear of her father. She left and Chukwunonye took the baby boy. “I didn’t think I was doing anything bad as I was only offering assistance to the young girl who was in a state of confusion. The police later came to arrest me accusing me of inducing pregnant women to deliver their babies that I sell. “Unfortunately, they met a pregnant woman in my house and accused me of planning to induce her in order to sell the baby after birth. The police also accused me of impersonating as a medical doctor. I am not a medical doctor but a traditional birth attendant. I never claimed I was a medical doctor. I was just doing my duty as a traditional birth attendant.” The Lagos State Commissioner of Police, Imohimi Edgal, said police operatives found Ibeto administering intravenous injection (drip) on one Oju Nnamdi, who claimed to be ill and was five months pregnant. “Ibeto had confessed that one Buki, a 17-year-old, was induced and delivered of a baby boy. She further confessed that she sold the boy to Udoji Chukwunonye for N250,000. The said Udoji was arrested and the baby retrieved from her and taken to the hospital, while Buki herself is being trailed for arrest,” Edgal said.