The Federal Government has been advised to deploy fighter jets to fight armed bandit groups that were terrorizing communities in Zamfara and Kaduna states. Chairman, Karmajiji Hausa Community Development Association, Muhammad Sani Ibrahim Bakura made the call in an exclusive interview with Daily Trust, in Abuja, on Monday. “This issue is getting out of hands and if Government did not take proactive measures it will become something else. Therefore, I am calling on Government to procure fighter helicopter jets and deploy them to Zamfara and Kaduna states to fight these armed groups that are terrorizing these communities”. Bakura who claimed to be a member of professional vigilante group in Karmajiji said that air strike would kill the armed bandits. According to him, the armed groups operating in Zamfara and Birnin Gwari in Kaduna state are well armed with sophisticated weapons. He said that the gang members have affiliation with Boko Haram terrorists group that are operating in the North east and other part of the country. The leader said that the groups were not into kidnapping and cattle rustling a lone but according to him, they were sent to scuttle the efforts of present administration of reviving agriculture in the country. According to him, the armed bandits were operating between Maradun, Bakura, Shinkafi and other Local Governments in Zamfara state and other neighbouring states. He said they should be dealt with decisively to bring lasting peace and harmony in the affected communities. He commended the timely response of the military men when the armed bandits attacked some villages recently in Zamfara state. He said if Government would take proactive measures and respond quickly it would go a long way in protecting the lives and property of the citizens. He appealed to the Federal Government to partner with State Governments to tackle the menace before it is too late. He commended President Muhammadu Buhari for making efforts to revive agriculture and diversify the economy of the country.