The Audu/Faleke Political Organization has said that it will boycott the forthcoming congresses of the All Progressive Congress (APC) in Kogi State because indications have emerged that they would be no level playing ground in the exercise. 

The Director of Media and Publicity of the organization, Duro Maseko in a statement issued in Lokoja on Thursday alleged that Governor Yahaya Bello has "hijacked the whole processes", handing over  the Ward Congresses to his LGA Administrators to compile names from wards to LGA.

The group alleged that the actions of the governor since coming into power had shown that he has an agenda of "emasculating" the Audu/Falake political family that worked for the electoral victory he (Bello) is today enjoying. 


"We have on good authority that thugs are being armed to attack any of our members considered not to be GYB member in all the venues of the congresses. 

"In view of the above therefore, the Audu/Faleke Political Organization hereby direct our members across the three Senatorial Districts in the State not to risk their valuable lives to participate in any of the congresses beginning from this week's Ward Congresses.

The group accused the Oyegun-led National leadership of the APC of insincerity in resolving the crisis that rocked the APC in the state following the death of Prince Abubakar Audu. 

The group pointed out that despite far reaching recommendations made by the various committees set up by the national leadership of the APC to resolve the crisis in the state, the party failed to act on such recommendations because it was more interested in doing the bidding of the powers that be in the state. 

But reacting, the Director General on Media and Publicity to the Kogi Governor, Kingsley Fanwo said the Governor has neither compiled any list nor raised thugs to attack anybody in the forthcoming congresses. 

He described the group as "diaspora politicians" who are already jittery having lost touch with their people at the grassroots over past two and half years. 

"Their statement is a face saving effort over the shame of losing a free and fair congress and rather than lose and be mocked, they have chosen to stay away", he said. 

He said the governor as the leader of the party, respect the APC constitution and would not allow imposition of executives on the party.