The management of St. Gerards Catholic hospital in Kaduna State has lamented the non-payment of N27million debt owed by the state government, companies and others who have patronized it. Speaking yesterday at a press conference to commemorate the 60th golden jubilee of the hospital, the administrator of St. Gerard’s Catholic Hospital, Reverend Sister Beatrice Danladi said Kaduna state government owed the hospital N12.1million. While she thanked Governor Nasir El-Rufai for the payment of N8million out of the initial N15.6million debt owed by the state for the treatment of victims of 2011 post-election crisis, derailed train accident in Kakau, police station attack in Kujama and electrocuted children in Kakuri; she noted that another N4.5million debt was incurred in 2016/2017. “The bill has been sent and no positive response till date. In total, Kaduna state owes N12million which comprise of the N4.5million plus the outstanding balance of N7.6million,” she said. According to her, other patients and companies also owe the hospital close to N15million. “We would have loved to offer inexpensive services but due to the economic situation of the country, we have no means of generating adequate funds for easy implementation of our goals and sustenance of skilled staff,” she said. “St. Gerard’s being in the heart of Kaduna will assist people from travelling a long distance to access care in Abuja and Kano but funding has remained a challenge,” she said. The spokesperson of the hospital, Sunday Ali appealed to the state government to include St. Gerard’s in its subvention plan since the hospital is a major collaborator. Also, speaking at the Mass Service at the Catholic Church to mark the celebration, the Archbishop of the Kaduna Catholic Church, Reverend Mathew Man-Oso Ndagoso said the situation in the hospital has changed because it is no longer getting funds from donors like it used to be in the past. He however appealed for a change of mentality to meet the reality on ground that the hospital is running on internal donations. Senator Shehu Sani (APC, Kaduna Central), said the hospital had established an enviable reputation as a medical centre where victims of accidents are taken to for urgent attention and medications without hindrance of exorbitant initial financial deposits.